Item 1. Financial Statements ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 6 A BRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED) (in thousands, except share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 7 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands except per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 8 9 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 10 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Basis of Presentation The accounting policies followed by Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") are set forth in the notes to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016. Such policies have been continued without change. Also, refer to the notes to those financial statements for additional details of the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. All material items included in those notes have not changed except as a result of normal transactions in the interim, or as disclosed within this report. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited by our independent registered public accountants, and in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations. Any and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Although management believes the unaudited interim related disclosures in these condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The results of operations and the cash flows for the period ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the consolidated audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Consolidation Principles The terms "Abraxas," "Abraxas Petroleum," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, including Raven Drilling, LLC ("Raven Drilling"). Rig Accounting In accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, no income is to be recognized in connection with contractual drilling services performed in connection with properties in which the Company or its affiliates hold an ownership, or other economic interest. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation is to be credited to the full cost pool and recognized through lower amortization as reserves are produced. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassification of prior period balances Certain amounts in the prior period presented have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. These reclassifications have no effect on previously reported net income. New Accounting Standards and Disclosures In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-06,Derivatives and hedging (Topic 815): Contingent put and call options in debt instruments, which clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company;s condensed consolidated financial statements.In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08,Revenue from contracts with customers (Topic 606): Principal versus agent considerations (reporting revenue gross versus net),which clarifies the implementation guidance on principle versus agent considerations. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2017, and early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently 11 assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to employee share-based payment accounting,which includes provisions intended to simplify various aspects related to how share-based compensation payments are accounted for and presented in the financial statements. This amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated fianancial statements. Stock-based Compensation andOption Plans Stock Options The Company currently utilizes a standard option-pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to stock options for the periods presented: The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for the three months ended March31, 2016 (shares in thousands): Additional information related to stock options at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: As of March31, 2016 , there was approximately $4.5 million of unamortized compensation expense related to outstanding stock options that will be recognized in 2016 through 2019. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are awards of common stock that are subject to restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the awardee terminates employment with the Company prior to the lapse of the restrictions. The fair value of such stock was determined using the closing price on the grant date and compensation expense is recorded over the applicable vesting periods. The following table summarizes the Company's restricted stock activity for the three months ended March31, 2016 : 12 The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock for the periods presented: As of March31, 2016 , there was approximately $3.0 million of unamortized compensation expense relating to outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized in 2016 through 2019. Oil and Gas Properties The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.Under this method, all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with acquisition of properties and successful as well as unsuccessful exploration and development activities are capitalized. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties and estimated future development costs, excluding unproved properties, are based on the unit-of-production method based on proved reserves.Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties, less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves based on unescalated prices discounted at 10 percent, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. Costs in excess of the present value of estimated net revenue from proved reserves discounted at 10% are charged to proved property impairment expense.No gain or loss is recognized upon sale or disposition of oil and gas properties for full cost accounting companies with proceeds accounted for as an adjustment of capitalized cost. An exception to this rule occurs when the adjustment to the full cost pool results in a significant alteration of the relationship between capitalized cost and proved reserves. The Company applies the full cost ceiling test on a quarterly basis on the date of the latest balance sheet presented. At March31, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $35.1 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of $35.1 million for the quarter ended March31, 2016 . Based on the first-day-of-the-month prices over the twelve months ended May 1, 2016, we anticipate recording additional write-downs in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties during the second quarter of 2016 of approximately $44.4 million. Impairment calculations did not consider the positive impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Further write-downs in subsequent quarters are reasonably likely to occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices continue to fall as compared to the commodity prices used in prior quarters. For the period ended March 31, 2015, our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the present value of our estimated proved reserves. Restoration, Removal and Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require the Company to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum substances at various sites.Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future economic benefit.Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that have no future economic benefit are expensed. 13 Liabilities for expenditures of a non-capital nature are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation is probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are generally undiscounted unless the timing of cash payments for the liability or component is fixed or reliably determinable. The Company accounts for future site restoration obligations based on the guidance of ASC 410 which addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. ASC 410 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset's retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its then present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the related asset. For all periods presented, we have included estimated future costs of abandonment and dismantlement in our full cost amortization base and amortize these costs as a component of our depletion expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the Company's future site restoration obligation transactions for the three months ended March31, 2016 and the year ended December 31, 2015: 2.Income Taxes The Company records income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , there was no income tax benefit due to the fact we are in a loss position and have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net deferred taxes. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of March31, 2016 , the Company did not have any accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2012 through 2015 remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject. At December 31, 2015, the Company had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $192.9 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes.The loss carryforward will expire in varying amounts through 2035, if not utilized. Uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards therefore, we have established a valuation allowance of $103.7 million for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2015. 3. Long-Term Debt The following is a description of the Company's debt as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively: Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of March31, 2016 , $134.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At March31, 2016 , we had a borrowing base of $165.0 million . On April 22, 2016, the credit facility was amended, which we refer to as the April 2016 Amendment, to set the borrowing base to $130.0 million in connection with the April 1 redetermination. In order to effectuate the reduction, we liquidated a portion of our hedge contracts and entered into new hedges for similar volumes. In connection with the hedge monetization (see Note 5), we received approximately $10.0 million of proceeds, which were used to repay borrowings under the credit facility. As part of the amendment, Societe Generale also waived any potential violation which the hedge liquidation could have caused. Unless the redetermination scheduled to occur with the delivery of our internal engineering report on or about August 31, 2016, which we refer to as the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, has become effective prior to October 1, 2016 the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016 unless it has been otherwise redetermined. Effective April 1, 2016, in connection with the amendment discussed below; outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) between April 1, 2016 to the earlier of October 1, 2016 and the effective date of the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 14 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At March 31, 2016, the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.93% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net income, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At March31, 2016 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of March31, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 11.67 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 3.07 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.23 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. In addition, in connection with the April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 15 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011, Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The original principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $2.1 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July20, 2023 . As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $4.0 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. 4. Earnings per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: 16 Basic earnings per share, excluding any dilutive effects of stock options and unvested restricted stock, is computed by dividing net loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted loss per share is computed similar to basic; however diluted loss per share reflects the assumed conversion of all potentially dilutive securities. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , 1,642 potential shares related to unvested restricted shares were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share since their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to losses incurred in the periods. 5. Hedging Program and Derivatives The derivative instruments we utilize are based on index prices that may and often do differ from the actual oil and gas prices realized in our operations.Our derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting as prescribed by ASC 815; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. There are no netting agreements relating to these derivative contracts and there is no policy to offset. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts as of March31, 2016 : Fixed price swaps: Collar contracts combined with short puts (three-way collar) On April 1, 2016, the Company monetized all of its April - September 2016 derivative contract positions for approximately $10.0 million , and simultaneously entered into new derivative contracts for the period April - September 2016 for 1,948Bbl per day at a fixed swap price of $39.04 . Proceeds from the monetization were used to repay borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts after the above transactions. 17 2018 1,500 $46.39 The following table illustrates the impact of derivative contracts on the Company's balance sheet: Gains and losses from derivative activities are reflected as "Gain on derivative contracts" in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 6. Financial Instruments Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The Company is further required to assess the creditworthiness of the counter-party to the derivative contract. The results of the assessment of non-performance risk, based on the counter-party's credit risk, could result in an adjustment of the carrying value of the derivative instrument. The following tables sets forth information about the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , and indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): 18 The Company's derivative contracts consist of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Three-way collar contracts combine a long put, a short put and a short call. Under a collar, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The use of the long put combined with a short put allows us to sell a call at a higher price, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limits our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downward risk to the difference between the long put and the short put if the price drops below the price of the short put. This allows us to settle our contracts for the market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put in a case where the market price has fallen below the short put fixed price. The NYMEX-based fixed price derivative contracts and three-way collars are indexed to NYMEX futures contracts, which are actively traded, for the underlying commodity and are commonly used in the energy industry. A number of financial institutions and large energy companies act as counter-parties to these type of derivative contracts. As the fair value of these derivative contracts is based on a number of inputs, including contractual volumes and prices stated in each derivative contract, current and future NYMEX commodity prices, and quantitative models that are based upon readily observable market parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, we have characterized these derivative contracts as Level 2. In order to verify the third party valuation, we enter the various inputs into a model and compare our results to the third party for reasonableness. The fair value of the collar instruments are based on inputs that are not as observable as the fixed price swaps. In addition to the actively quoted market price, variables such as time value, volatility and other unobservable inputs are used. Accordingly, these instruments have been classified as Level 3. The following is additional information for the Company's recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As it relates to the Company, ASC 820-10 applies to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities as may be acquired in a business combination and thereby measured at fair value and the initial recognition of future site restoration obligations for which fair value is used. The future site restoration obligation estimates are derived from historical costs as well as management's expectation of future cost environments. As there is no corroborating market activity to support the assumptions used, the Company has designated these liabilities as Level 3. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's future site restoration is presented in Note 1. 19 Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities and/or liquid nature of these assets and liabilities. The carrying value of our debt approximates fair value as the interest rates are market rates and this debt is considered Level 2. 20 7. Commitments and Contingencies From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. At March31, 2016 , the Company was not involved in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016, and the historical unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Excluded from this discussion are the results of Canadian Abraxas which was sold on October 31, 2014. The results of these foreign operations are included as discontinued operations in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Except as otherwise noted, all tabular amounts are in thousands, except per unit values. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes from the Critical Accounting Policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. General We are an independent energy company primarily engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas in the United States. We focus on assets with a high working interest and low geologic risk as well as operational and infrastructure control. We seek strong full cycle rate of return and low risk exploitable upside using the Company's operating experience. We believe that we have a number of development opportunities on our properties and intend to expand upon our development activities with complementary exploration projects in our core areas of operation. Success in our development and exploration activities is critical in the maintenance and growth of our current production levels and associated reserves. Factors Affecting Our Financial Results Our financial results depend upon many factors which significantly affect our results of operations including the following: commodity prices and the effectiveness of our hedging arrangements; the level of total sales volumes of oil, gas and NGL; the availability of and our ability to raise additional capital resources and provide liquidity to meet cash flow needs; the level of and interest rates on borrowings; and the level and success of exploration and development activity Commodity Prices and Hedging Arrangements . The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and gas production. The prices we receive for our production are dependent upon spot market prices, differentials and the effectiveness of our derivative contracts, which we sometimes refer to as hedging arrangements. Substantially all of our sales of oil and gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. Significant declines in prices for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Oil and gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, worldwide demand for, and supplies of oil, NGL and gas, the availability 21 of other worldwide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, we are unable to predict what changes may occur in oil, NGL, and gas prices in the future. The market price of oil and condensate, NGL and gas in 2015 and during the first quarter of 2016 have impacted the amount of cash generated from operating activities, and have in turn impacted our financial position. During the three months ended March31, 2016 , the NYMEX future price for oil averaged $33.63 per Bbl as compared to $48.59 per Bbl in 2015. During the three months ended March31, 2016 , the NYMEX future spot price for gas averaged $1.98 per MMBtu compared to $2.82 per MMBtu in 2015. Prices closed on March31, 2016 at $38.34 per Bbl of oil and $1.96 per MMBtu of gas, compared to closing on March31, 2015 at $48.68 per Bbl of oil and $2.64 per MMBtu of gas.If commodity prices remain at these levels or continue to decline, our revenue and cash flow from operations will also likely decline.In addition, lower commodity prices could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically.If oil and gas prices remain depressed or continue to decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations will also likely decrease which could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our drilling activities. Such declines have required, and in future periods could also require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets which would also cause a reduction in net income. The realized prices that we receive for our production differ from NYMEX futures and spot market prices, principally due to: basis differentials which are dependent on actual delivery location; adjustments for BTU content; quality of the hydrocarbons; and gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table sets forth our average differentials for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: _____________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of derivative activities. At March31, 2016 , our derivative contracts consisted of fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Three-way collar contracts combine a long put, a short put and a short call. Under a collar, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The use of the long put combined with a short put allows us to sell a call at a higher price, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limits our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downward risk to the difference between the long put and the short put if the price drops below the price of the short put. This allows us to settle our contracts for the market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put in a case where the market price has fallen below the short put fixed price. Our derivative contracts equate to approximately 67% of the estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on our reserve estimates as of March 31, 2016) through December31, 2016, 90% in 2017, and 88% in 2018. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production that has been hedged.We have in the past and will in the future sustain losses on our derivative contracts if market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , we incurred a gain of $0.7 million , consisting of a gain of $5.3 million on closed contracts and a loss of $4.6 million related to our open contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, we incurred a gain of $4.8 million consisting of a gain of $3.6 million on closed contracts and a gain of $1.2 million related to open contracts. We have not designated any of these derivative contracts as a hedge as prescribed by applicable accounting rules. The following table sets forth our derivative contracts at March31, 2016 : 22 Fixed Price Swaps: Collar contracts combined with short puts (three-way collar) At March31, 2016 , the aggregate fair market value of our commodity derivative contracts was an asset of approximately $18.6 million . On April 1, 2016 we monetized our April - September 2016 derivative positions for approximately $10.0 million and simultaneously entered into new derivative contracts for the period April - September 2016 for 1,948 Bbl per day at a fixed swap price of $39.04. Proceeds from the monetization were used to re-pay borrowings under our credit facility. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts after the above transactions: Production Volumes. Our proved reserves will decline as oil and gas is produced, unless we find, acquire or develop additional properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities.Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve estimates as of December31, 2015, we anticipate our proved developed producing reserves to decline 33%, 26% and 15% in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. Thereafter our reserves are expected to decline an estimated 10% annually.These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially higher.While we have had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, we have not always been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and property sales. Our ability to acquire or find additional reserves in the future will be dependent, in part, upon the amount of available funds for acquisition, exploration and development projects. We had capital expenditures during the three months ended March31, 2016 of $1.6 million related to our exploration and development activities. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2016 of approximately $40.0 million. This budget assumes an improvement in commodity pricesby the summer of 2016, andre-starting the Raven Rig #1. However, if commodity prices stay at current levels or decline further and we elect to keep the Raven Rig #1 idled,our capital expenditures 23 could be approximately $17.5 million which we intend to fund primarily with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. Substantially all of the $17.5 million would be spent on completing previously drilled wells in the Bakken/Three Forks in the Rocky Mountain region. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. The following table presents historical net production volumes for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015: Availability of Capital . As described more fully under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, our sources of capital are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, and if appropriate opportunities presents themselves, issuing debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing our derivative instruments, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all.As of March31, 2016 we had approximately $134.0 million outstanding During March 2016, Soci t G n rale, as Administrative Agent under Abraxas' credit facility, and Abraxas agreed to a $130.0 million borrowing base to take effect on April 1, 2016, requiring a reduction in total borrowings by that date. In order to effectuate the reduction, Soci t G n rale and Abraxas agreed to liquidate a portion of Abraxas' derivative contracts and to enter into new derivative contracts for similar volumes. Soci t G n rale also agreed to waive any potential violation which the liquidation of the derivative contracts could have caused and memorialized that waiver in connection with the April 2016 Amendment. . As of May 5, 2016 the balance of the credit facility was $123.0 million, with availability of $7.0 million. Unless the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, our borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016 unless it has been otherwise redetermined before that date. Borrowings and Interest . At March31, 2016 , we had a total of $134.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and total indebtedness of $140.2 million (including the current portion). In connection with the borrowing base redetermination in April 2016, our borrowing base was reduced to $130.0 million and the amount outstanding under the credit facility was reduced to $124.0 million with proceeds from restructuring of our derivative contracts. If interest expense increases as a result of higher interest rates or increased borrowings, more cash flow from operations would be used to meet debt service requirements.As a result, we would need to increase our cash flow from operations in order to fund the development of our drilling opportunities which, in turn, will be dependent upon the level of our production volumes and commodity prices. Exploration and Development Activity. We believe that our high quality asset base, high degree of operational control and inventory of drilling projects position us for future growth. At December 31, 2015, we operated properties accounting for approximately 95% of our PV-10, giving us substantial control over the timing and incurrence of operating and capital expenditures. We have identified numerous additional drilling locations on our existing leaseholds, the successful development of which we believe could significantly increase our production and proved reserves. Over the five years ended December 31, 2015, we drilled or participated in 145 gross (55.8 net) wells of which 97% were productive. Our future oil and gas production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties and our proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production may also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility may also decline. In addition, approximately 60% of our estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves or develop our existing undeveloped reserves, in which case our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 24 Operational Update On the Stenehjem Super Pad, we are preparing our six Bakken/Three Forks wells for fracture stimulation in late June/early July 2016. Abraxas anticipates first production from these wells in the third quarter of 2016. Abraxas owns a working interest of approximately 78% in the Stenehjem 10H-15H. 2016 Outlook Market prices for oil, gas and NGL are inherently volatile. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the future prices for the commodities we produce and sell. Current market fundamentals indicate prices for oil, gas and NGL will continue to be depressed for much of 2016. Although changes in OPEC production strategies, geopolitical risks or other factors could impact current forecasts, we anticipate weak commodity prices throughout 2016. Depressed prices for oil and gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, sales of non-core assets and other capital transactions, when available. Cash flow from operations is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is the price of the oil, gas and NGL we produce and sell. Our consolidated cash flow from operations decreased in the first three months of 2016 as a result of the significant decrease in commodity prices compared to the first quarter of 2015. Availability under our credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $130.0 million. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual (April 1 and October 1) and other elective borrowing base redeterminations. Unless the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016 unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. The lenders under our credit facility can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. As a result of the sharp decline in commodity prices, we recorded an impairment to our proved properties of $128.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and an additional impairment of $35.1 million for the first quarter of 2016. We expect to record additional impairments of our oil and gas properties during 2016 as a result of declining oil and gas prices. We estimate the impairment for the second quarter of 2016 could be approximately $44.4 million. The amount of any such impairment is contingent upon many factors such as the price of oil, gas and NGL for the remainder of 2016, increases or decreases in our reserve base, changes in estimated costs and expenses, and oil and gas property acquisitions, which could increase, decrease or eliminate the need for such impairments. While we will continue to operate and develop our portfolio of assets, we are committed to protecting our balance sheet and managing our capital programs to be within our cash flow from operations. As a result, we can significantly reduce our capital budget in response to lower commodity prices. We are also committed to reducing our general and administrative, or G&A and field-level operating costs commensurate with our reduced, but focused, activity level. Abraxas President and CEO took a voluntary salary reduction of 20% effective September 1, 2015, effective February 1, 2016, the remaining named executive officers of Abraxas took a voluntary salary reduction of 20% and other employees, depending on salary thresholds, took voluntary cuts of 10% - 20%. It is anticipated that these reductions will reduce G&A expense by approximately $0.8 million during 2016. Results of Operations Selected Operating Data . The following table sets forth operating data from continuing operations for the periods presented. 25 ___________________ (1) Revenue and average sales prices are before the impact of hedging activities. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Operating Revenue . During the three months ended March 31, 2016, operating revenue decreased to $9.6 million from $18.7 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to significantly lower prices for all products as well as lower sales volumes for oil and gas. Lower oil and gas sales volumes negatively impacted revenue by approximately $3.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Significant decreases in prices for all products had a negative impact of approximately $6.4 million on operating revenue for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Oil sales volumes decreased to 327 MBbl during the three months ended March31, 2016 from 403 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The decrease in oil sales volume was primarily due to natural field declines. Production decreases were offset by new wells brought on line since the first quarter of 2015 which contributed 130 MBbl for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Gas sales volumes decreased to 778 MMcf for the three months ended March31, 2016 from 798 MMcf for the same period of 2015. The decrease in gas production was due to natural declines as well as pipeline constraints. The decrease was partially offset by new wells brought on line since March 31, 2015 which contributed 203 MMcf for the three months ended March31, 2016 . NGL sales volumes increased to 82 MBbl for the three months ended March31, 2016 from 57 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain Region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in North Dakota and West Texas. Lease Operating Expenses ("LOE") . LOE for the three months ended March31, 2016 decreased to $4.8 million from $6.3 million for the same period in 2015. Due to the decline in commodity prices, there has been a decrease in the cost of services. Additionally we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells. We have also significantly reduced our non-recurring projects. LOE per Boe for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $8.82 compared to $10.61 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was due to lower costs incurred for the three months ended March31, 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended March31, 2016 decreased to $1.2 million from $1.8 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was due to lower commodity prices and lower sales volumes. General and Administrative ("G&A") Expenses. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, for the three months ended March31, 2016 decreased to $1.9 million from $2.2 million for the same period of 2015. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation, was $3.56 for the quarter ended March31, 2016 compared to $3.75 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was primarily due to lower costs offset by lower sales volumes. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, stock-based compensation was constant at $0.8 million . Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization ("DD&A") Expenses. DD&A expense for the three months ended March31, 2016 decreased to $5.9 million from $12.1 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of a 26 further decrease in future development costs in our March 31, 2016 reserve report. DD&A expense per Boe for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $10.94 compared to $20.35 in 2015. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, which is equal to the PV-10 of the proved reserves, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of March31, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $35.1 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. Based on the first-day-of-the-month prices over the twelve months ended May 1, 2016, we anticipate recording further write-downs in the carrying value of our oil and gas properties during the remainder of 2016. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the three months ended March31, 2016 increased to $1.2 million from $0.8 million for the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily due to higher debt levels in 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Gain on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts, therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consist of commodity swaps and three way collar contracts. The estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was an asset of approximately $18.6 million and $27.4 million as of March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur losses. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $0.7 million , consisting of a gain on our closed contracts of $5.3 million and a loss of $4.6 million relating to our open contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $4.8 million , consisting of a gain of $3.6 million on our closed contracts and a gain of $1.2 million related to our open contracts. We monetized a portion of our derivative contracts in April 2016. Cash flows from future settlements are expected to decrease as a result. Income Tax Expense. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 there was no income tax expense recognized as we are in a loss position and have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources General . The oil and gas industry is a highly capital intensive and cyclical business. Our capital requirements are driven principally by our obligations to service debt and to fund the following: the development and exploration of existing properties, including drilling and completion costs of wells; acquisition of interests in additional oil and gas properties; and production and transportation facilities. The amount of capital expenditures we are able to make has a direct impact on our ability to increase cash flow from operations and, thereby, will directly affect our ability to service our debt obligations and to grow the business through the development of existing properties and the acquisition of new properties. Our principal sources of capital are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, and if appropriate opportunities are available, selling of debt or equity securities, selling 27 assets or monetizing derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any of such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Capital Expenditures . Capital expenditures for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were $1.6 million and $12.4 million , respectively. The table below sets forth the components of these capital expenditures: During the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 our expenditures were primarily for development of our existing properties. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2016 of approximately $40.0 million. This budget assumes an improvement in commodity pricesby the summer of 2016, andre-starting the Raven Rig #1. However, if commodity prices stay at current levels or decline further and we elect to keep the Raven Rig #1 idled,our capital expenditures could be approximately $17.5 million which we intend to fund primarily with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, sales of non-core assets and other capital transactions, when available. Substantially all of the $17.5 million would be spent on completing previously drilled wells in the Bakken/Three Forks in the Rocky Mountain region. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability of sufficient capital resources, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Our capital expenditures could also include expenditures for the acquisition of producing properties, if such opportunities arise.Additionally, the level of capital expenditures will vary during future periods depending on economic and industry conditions and commodity prices. Should the prices of oil and gas continue to remain at depressed levels or decline further, our costs of operations increase or if our production volumes decrease, our cash flows will decrease which may result in a reduction of the capital expenditure budget. If we decrease our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to offset oil and gas production decreases caused by natural field declines. Sources of Capital. The net funds provided by and/or used in each of the operating, investing and financing activities are summarized in the following table and discussed in further detail below: Operating activities for the three months ended March31, 2016 used $2.5 million in cash compared to using $27.1 million in the same period of 2015. Non-cash expense items and, net changes in operating assets and liabilities accounted for most of these funds. Investing activities provided $0.01 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 , proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties of $1.60 million offset expenditures of $1.59 million . Investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 used $12.4 million . Funds used during the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were primarily for the development of our existing properties. Financing activities used $0.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 compared to providing $39.6 million for the same period of 2015. Funds used during the three months ended March31, 2016 were primarily payments on borrowings under our credit facility offset by proceeds of borrowings under the credit facility. Funds provided during the three months ended March 31, 2015 were primarily proceeds from borrowings under our credit facility. 28 Future Capital Resources . Our principal sources of capital going forward are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, and if appropriate opportunities are available, selling of debt or equity securities, and selling assets or monetizing derivative instruments, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash from operating activities is dependent upon commodity prices and production volumes.Depressed commodity prices have reduced, and further decreases in commodity prices from current levels could reduce our cash flows from operations.This could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our exploration and development plans.Unless we otherwise expand and develop reserves, our production volumes may decline as reserves are produced.In the future we may continue to sell producing properties, which could further reduce our production volumes. To offset the loss in production volumes resulting from natural field declines and sales of producing properties, we must conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional producing properties or identify and develop additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We believe our numerous drilling opportunities will allow us to increase our production volumes; however, our drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including availability of capital and the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be found.If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production could also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility could also decline. The risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 60% of our total estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were classified as undeveloped. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell producing properties. We have also sold debt and equity securities in the past, and may sell additional debt and equity securities in the future when the opportunity presents itself. Contractual Obligations. We are committed to making cash payments in the future on the following types of agreements: Long-term debt, and Operating leases for office facilities. Below is a schedule of the future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place as of March31, 2016 : ___________________________ (1) These amounts represent the balances outstanding under our credit facility, the rig loan agreement and the real estate lien note. These payments assume that we will not borrow additional funds. (2) Interest expense assumes the balances of long-term debt at the end of the period and current effective interest rates. (3) Lease on office space in Dickinson, North Dakota, which expires on October 31, 2016, office space in Lusk, Wyoming, which will expire on December 31, 2016 and office space in Denver, Colorado which will expire on December 31, 2016. We maintain a reserve for costs associated with future site restoration related to the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. At March31, 2016 , our reserve for these obligations totaled $9.7 million for which no contractual commitments exist. For additional information relating to this obligation, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At March31, 2016 we had no existing off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC regulations, that have, or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contingencies. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. At March31, 2016 , we were not engaged in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on us. 29 Long-Term Indebtedness. Long-term debt consisted of the following: Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of March31, 2016 , $134.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At March31, 2016, we had a borrowing base of $165.0 million. During March 2016, Soci t G n rale, as Administrative Agent under Abraxas' credit facility, and Abraxas agreed to a $130.0 million borrowing base to take effect on April 1, 2016, requiring a reduction in total borrowings by that date. In order to effectuate the reduction, Soci t G n rale and Abraxas agreed to liquidate a portion of Abraxas' derivative contracts and to enter into new derivative contracts for similar volumes. Soci t G n rale also agreed to waive any potential violation which the liquidation of the derivative contracts could have caused and memorialized that waiver in connection with the April 2016 Amendment. Unless the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016 unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. Effective April 1, 2016, outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) between April 1, 2016 to the earlier of October 1, 2016 and the effective date of the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% 30 depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At March 31, 2016, the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.93% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with the April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net income, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At March31, 2016 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of March31, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 11.67 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 3.07 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.23 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. In addition, in connection with the April 2016 Amendment redetermination of the borrowing base, we agreed to certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 31 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million, then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011 Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $2.1 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July 20, 2023. As of March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $4.0 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. Hedging Activities Our results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices and we seek to reduce our exposure to price volatility by hedging our production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. We have entered into commodity swaps on approximately 67% of our estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on reserve estimates as of March 31, 2016) through December 31, 2016, 90% for 2017, and 88% for 2018. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe that we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production that has been hedged.We have sustained, and in the future will sustain, losses on our derivative contracts when market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. If the disparity between our contract prices and market prices continues, we will sustain gains or losses on our derivative contracts. While gains and losses resulting from the periodic mark to market of our open contracts do not impact our cash flow from operations, gains and losses from settlements of our closed contracts do impact our cash flow from operations. In addition, as our derivative contracts expire over time, we expect to enter into new derivative contracts at then-current market prices.If the prices at which we hedge future production are significantly lower than our existing derivative contracts, our future cash flow from operations would likely be materially lower. 32Item 1. Financial Statements ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 6 A BRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED) (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 7 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands except per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 8 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 9 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Basis of Presentation The accounting policies followed by Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") are set forth in the notes to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016. Such policies have been continued without change. Also, refer to the notes to those financial statements for additional details of the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. All material items included in those notes have not changed except as a result of normal transactions in the interim, or as disclosed within this report. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited by our independent registered public accountants, and in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations. Any and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Although management believes the unaudited interim related disclosures in these condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The results of operations and the cash flows for the period ended June30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the consolidated audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Consolidation Principles The terms "Abraxas," "Abraxas Petroleum," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, including Raven Drilling, LLC ("Raven Drilling"). Rig Accounting In accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, no income is to be recognized in connection with contractual drilling services performed in connection with properties in which the Company or its affiliates hold an ownership, or other economic interest. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation is to be credited to the full cost pool and recognized through lower amortization as reserves are produced. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassification of prior period balances Certain amounts in the prior period presented have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. These reclassifications have no effect on previously reported net loss. New Accounting Standards and Disclosures In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) : Contingent put and call options in debt instruments, which clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company' condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) : Principal Versus Agent Considerations (reporting revenue gross versus net),which clarifies the implementation guidance on principle versus agent considerations. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 10 2017, and early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which includes provisions intended to simplify various aspects related to how share-based compensation payments are accounted for and presented in the financial statements. This amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. Stock-based Compensation andOption Plans Stock Options The Company currently utilizes a standard option-pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to stock options for the periods presented: The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for the six months ended June30, 2016 (shares in thousands): Additional information related to stock options at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: As of June30, 2016 , there was approximately $4.1 million of unamortized compensation expense related to outstanding stock options that will be recognized in 2016 through 2020. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are awards of common stock that are subject to restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the awardee terminates employment with the Company prior to the lapse of the restrictions. The fair value of such stock was determined using the closing price on the grant date and compensation expense is recorded over the applicable vesting periods. The following table summarizes the Company's restricted stock activity for the six months ended June30, 2016 : 11 The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock for the periods presented: As of June30, 2016 , there was approximately $2.7 million of unamortized compensation expense relating to outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized in 2016 through 2020. Oil and Gas Properties The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.Under this method, all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with acquisition of properties and successful as well as unsuccessful exploration and development activities are capitalized. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties and estimated future development costs, excluding unproved properties, are based on the unit-of-production method based on proved reserves.Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties, less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves based on unescalated prices discounted at 10 percent, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. Costs in excess of the present value of estimated net revenue from proved reserves discounted at 10% are charged to proved property impairment expense.No gain or loss is recognized upon sale or disposition of oil and gas properties for full cost accounting companies with proceeds accounted for as an adjustment of capitalized cost. An exception to this rule occurs when the adjustment to the full cost pool results in a significant alteration of the relationship between capitalized cost and proved reserves. The Company applies the full cost ceiling test on a quarterly basis on the date of the latest balance sheet presented. At June30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of $28.7 million for the quarter ended June30, 2016 . For the six months ended June 30, 2016, proved property impairments of $63.8 million have been recognized. Impairment calculations did not consider the impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Further write-downs in subsequent quarters are reasonably likely to occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices continue to fall as compared to the commodity prices used in prior quarters. For the period ended June 30, 2015, our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the present value of our estimated proved reserves. Restoration, Removal and Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require the Company to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum substances at various sites.Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future economic benefit.Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that have no future economic benefit are expensed. 12 Liabilities for expenditures of a non-capital nature are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation is probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are generally undiscounted unless the timing of cash payments for the liability or component is fixed or reliably determinable. The Company accounts for future site restoration obligations based on the guidance of ASC 410 which addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. ASC 410 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset's retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its then present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the related asset. For all periods presented, we have included estimated future costs of abandonment and dismantlement in our full cost amortization base and amortize these costs as a component of our depletion expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the Company's future site restoration obligation transactions for the six months ended June30, 2016 and the year ended December 31, 2015: 2.Income Taxes The Company records income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 , there was no income tax benefit due to the fact we are in a loss position and have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net deferred taxes. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of June30, 2016 , the Company did not have any accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2012 through 2015 remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject. At December 31, 2015, the Company had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $192.9 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes.The loss carryforward will expire in varying amounts through 2035, if not utilized. Uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards therefore, we have established a valuation allowance of $103.7 million for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2015. 3. Long-Term Debt The following is a description of the Company's debt as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively: 13 Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of June30, 2016 , $95.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At June30, 2016 , we had a borrowing base of $130.0 million , based on an amendment on April 22, 2016, which we refer to as the April 2016 Amendment. Unless the redetermination scheduled to occur with the delivery of our internal engineering report on or about August 31, 2016, which we refer to as the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016, unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. Effective April 1, 2016, in connection with the amendment discussed below, outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) between April 1, 2016 to the earlier of October 1, 2016 and the effective date of the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At June 30, 2016, the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.96% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non- 14 cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At June30, 2016 , we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of June30, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 10.71 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 2.25 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.26 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The April 2016 Amendment, also included certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011, Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The original principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $1.6 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July20, 2023 . As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $4.0 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. 4. Earnings per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: 15 Basic earnings per share, excluding any dilutive effects of stock options and unvested restricted stock, is computed by dividing net loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted loss per share is computed similar to basic; however diluted loss per share reflects the assumed conversion of all potentially dilutive securities. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 , 1,712 and 1,675 potential shares related to unvested restricted shares and options were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share since their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to losses incurred in the periods. 5. Hedging Program and Derivatives The derivative contracts we utilize are based on index prices that may and often do differ from the actual oil and gas prices realized in our operations.Our derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting as prescribed by ASC 815; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. There are no netting agreements relating to these derivative contracts and there is no policy to offset. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts as of June30, 2016 : Fixed price swaps: The following table illustrates the impact of derivative contracts on the Company's balance sheet: 16 Gains and losses from derivative activities are reflected as "(Loss) gain on derivative contracts" in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 6. Financial Instruments Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The Company is further required to assess the creditworthiness of the counter-party to the derivative contract. The results of the assessment of non-performance risk, based on the counter-party's credit risk, could result in an adjustment of the carrying value of the derivative instrument. The following tables sets forth information about the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , and indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): 17 The Company's derivative contracts consist of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps as of June 30, 2016, and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of December 31, 2015. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Three-way collar contracts combine a long put, a short put and a short call. Under a collar, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The use of the long put combined with a short put allows us to sell a call at a higher price, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limits our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downward risk to the difference between the long put and the short put if the price drops below the price of the short put. This allows us to settle our contracts for the market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put in a case where the market price has fallen below the short put fixed price. The NYMEX-based fixed price derivative contracts and three-way collars are indexed to NYMEX futures contracts, which are actively traded, for the underlying commodity and are commonly used in the energy industry. A number of financial institutions and large energy companies act as counter-parties to these type of derivative contracts. As the fair value of these derivative contracts is based on a number of inputs, including contractual volumes and prices stated in each derivative contract, current and future NYMEX commodity prices, and quantitative models that are based upon readily observable market parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, we have characterized these derivative contracts as Level 2. In order to verify the third party valuation, we enter the various inputs into a model and compare our results to the third party for reasonableness. The fair value of the collar instruments are based on inputs that are not as observable as the fixed price swaps. In addition to the actively quoted market price, variables such as time value, volatility and other unobservable inputs are used. Accordingly, these instruments have been classified as Level 3. The following is additional information for the Company's recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As it relates to the Company, ASC 820-10 applies to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities as may be acquired in a business combination and thereby measured at fair value and the initial recognition of future site restoration obligations for which fair value is used. The future site restoration obligation estimates are derived from historical costs as well as management's expectation of future cost environments. As there is no corroborating market activity to support the assumptions used, the Company has designated these liabilities as Level 3. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's future site restoration is presented in Note 1. Other Financial Instruments 18 The carrying amounts of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities and/or liquid nature of these assets and liabilities. The carrying value of our debt approximates fair value as the interest rates are market rates and this debt is considered Level 2. 7. Commitments and Contingencies From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. At June30, 2016 , the Company was not involved in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 19 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016, and the historical unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Except as otherwise noted, all tabular amounts are in thousands, except per unit values. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes from the Critical Accounting Policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. General We are an independent energy company primarily engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas in the United States. We focus on assets with a high working interest and low geologic risk as well as operational and infrastructure control. We seek strong full cycle rate of return and low risk exploitable upside using the Company's operating experience. We believe that we have a number of development opportunities on our properties and intend to expand upon our development activities with complementary exploration projects in our core areas of operation. Success in our development and exploration activities is critical in the maintenance and growth of our current production levels and associated reserves. Factors Affecting Our Financial Results Our financial results depend upon many factors which significantly affect our results of operations including the following: commodity prices and the effectiveness of our hedging arrangements; the level of total sales volumes of oil, gas and NGL; the availability of and our ability to raise additional capital resources and provide liquidity to meet cash flow needs; the level of and interest rates on borrowings; and the level and success of exploration and development activity Commodity Prices and Hedging Arrangements . The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and gas production. The prices we receive for our production are dependent upon spot market prices, differentials and the effectiveness of our derivative contracts, which we sometimes refer to as hedging arrangements. Substantially all of our sales of oil and gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. Significant declines in prices for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Oil and gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, worldwide demand for, and supplies of,oil, NGL and gas, the availability of other worldwide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, we are unable to predict what changes may occur in oil, NGL, and gas prices in the future. The market price of oil, NGL and gas in 2015, and during the first half of 2016, have impacted the amount of cash generated from operating activities, and have in turn impacted our financial position. During the six months ended June30, 2016 , the NYMEX future price for oil averaged $39.78 per Bbl as compared to $53.30 per Bbl in 2015. During the six months ended June30, 2016 , the NYMEX future spot price for gas averaged $2.12 20 per MMBtu compared to $2.78 per MMBtu in 2015. Prices closed on June30, 2016 at $48.33 per Bbl of oil and $2.93 per MMBtu of gas, compared to closing on June30, 2015 at $59.47 per Bbl of oil and $2.83 per MMBtu of gas. Prices have continued to decline subsequent to June 30, 2016. At August 5, 2016, prices closed at $41.80 per Bbl of oil and $2.77 per MMBtu of gas. If commodity prices remain at these levels or continue to decline, our revenue and cash flow from operations will also likely decline.In addition, lower commodity prices could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically.If oil and gas prices remain depressed or continue to decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations will also likely decrease which could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our drilling activities. Such declines have required, and in future periods could also require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets which would also cause a reduction in net income. The realized prices that we receive for our production differ from NYMEX futures and spot market prices, principally due to: basis differentials which are dependent on actual delivery location; adjustments for BTU content; quality of the hydrocarbons; and gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table sets forth our average differentials for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: _____________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of derivative activities. At June30, 2016 , our derivative contracts consisted of fixed price swaps. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Our derivative contracts equate to approximately 70% of the estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on our reserve estimates as of June 30, 2016) through December31, 2016, 90% in 2017, and 88% in 2018. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow.We have in the past and will in the future sustain losses on our derivative contracts if market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. For the six months ended June30, 2016 , we realized a loss of $12.8 million , consisting of a gain of $4.2 million on closed contracts and a loss of $17.0 million related to our open contracts. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, we realized a gain of $0.9 million consisting of a gain of $5.2 million on closed contracts and a loss of $4.3 million related to open contracts. We have not designated any of these derivative contracts as hedges as prescribed by applicable accounting rules. The following table sets forth our derivative contracts at June30, 2016 : Fixed Price Swaps: 21 At June30, 2016 , the aggregate fair market value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $6.0 million . Production Volumes. Our proved reserves will decline as oil and gas is produced, unless we find, acquire or develop additional properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities.Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve estimates as of December31, 2015, we anticipate our proved developed producing reserves to decline 33%, 26% and 15% in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. Thereafter our reserves are expected to decline an estimated 10% annually.These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially higher.While we have had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, we have not always been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and property sales. Our ability to acquire or find additional reserves in the future will be dependent, in part, upon the amount of available funds for acquisition, exploration and development projects. We had capital expenditures during the six months ended June30, 2016 of $5.7 million related to our exploration and development activities. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2016 of up to $40.0 million. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. The following table presents historical net production volumes for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015: Availability of Capital . As described more fully under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, our sources of capital are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, and if appropriate opportunities are available, issuing debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing our derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all.On May 25, 2016, we completed a stock offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $27.2 million. The net proceeds from this stock issuance were used to repay borrowings under our credit facility. As of August 2, 2016, we had $95.0 million outstanding. As of June 30, 2016 our borrowing base was $130.0 million. Unless the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, our borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016,unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. Borrowings and Interest . At June30, 2016 , we had a total of $95.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and total indebtedness of $100.6 million (including the current portion). In connection with the borrowing base redetermination in April 2016, our borrowing base was reduced to $130.0 million and the amount outstanding under the credit facility was reduced to $124.0 million with proceeds from restructuring of our derivative contracts. If interest expense increases as a result of higher interest rates or increased borrowings, more cash flow from operations would be used to meet debt service requirements.As a result, we would need to increase our cash flow from operations in order to fund the development of our drilling opportunities which, in turn, will be dependent upon the level of our production volumes and commodity prices. Exploration and Development Activity. We believe that our high quality asset base, high degree of operational control and inventory of drilling projects position us for future growth. At December 31, 2015, we operated properties accounting for approximately 95% of our PV-10, giving us substantial control over the timing and incurrence of operating and capital expenditures. We have identified numerous additional drilling locations on our existing leaseholds, the successful development of which we believe could significantly increase our production and proved reserves. Over the five years ended December 31, 2015, we drilled or participated in 145 gross (55.8 net) wells of which 97% were productive. Our future oil and gas production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties and our 22 proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production may also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility may also decline. In addition, approximately 60% of our estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves or develop our existing undeveloped reserves, in which case our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Operational Update Williston Basin At our North Fork prospect, in McKenzie County, North Dakota, 8 stages remain in the completion of the Stenehjem 10H-15H. Abraxas expects flowback on these wells to begin shortly. All additional offset wells that were shut-in for the fracture stimulation will be returned to production in the coming days. Abraxas owns a working interest of approximately 78% in the Stenehjem 10H-15H. Austin Chalk At our Jourdanton prospect in Atascosa County, Texas, the Company successfully drilled the Bulls Eye 101H to a total depth of 14,365 feet with a 5,865 foot effective lateral. Abraxas plans to complete this well with a 27 stage fracture stimulation in the coming weeks. Approximately 90% of the horizontal wellbore was in the Company's 20 foot target zone while drilling. Abraxas owns a 100% working interest in the Bulls Eye 101H. Permian In Ward County Texas, we plan to spud the Company's first well targeting the Wolfcamp A, the Caprito 99-101H, on August 13, 2016. Abraxas anticipates completing the 4,800 foot lateral horizontal well in September 2016 and bringing the well to sales shortly after. 2016 Outlook Market prices for oil, gas and NGL are inherently volatile. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the future prices for the commodities we produce and sell. Current market fundamentals indicate prices for oil, gas and NGL will continue to be depressed for much of 2016. Although changes in OPEC production strategies, geopolitical risks or other factors could impact current forecasts, we anticipate weak commodity prices throughout 2016. Depressed prices for oil and gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, sales of non-core assets and other capital transactions, when available. Cash flow from operations is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is the price of the oil, gas and NGL we produce and sell. Our consolidated cash flow from operations increased in the first six months of 2016 primarily as a result of the monetization of some of our derivative positions. Availability under our credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $130.0 million. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual (April 1 and October 1) and other elective borrowing base redeterminations. Unless the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016, unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. The lenders under our credit facility can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. As a result of the sharp decline in commodity prices, we recorded an impairment to our proved properties of $128.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and an additional impairment of $63.8 million for the first half of 2016. The amount of any additional impairment is contingent upon many factors such as the price of oil, gas and NGL for the remainder of 2016, increases or decreases in our reserve base, changes in estimated costs and expenses, and oil and gas property acquisitions, which could increase, decrease or eliminate the need for such impairments. While we will continue to operate and develop our portfolio of assets, we are committed to protecting our balance sheet and managing our capital programs to be within our cash flow from operations. As a result, we can significantly reduce our capital budget in response to lower commodity prices. We are also committed to reducing our general and administrative, 23 or G&A and field-level operating costs commensurate with our reduced, but focused, activity level. Abraxas President and CEO took a voluntary salary reduction of 20% effective September 1, 2015, effective February 1, 2016, the remaining named executive officers of Abraxas took a voluntary salary reduction of 20%. Results of Operations Selected Operating Data . The following table sets forth operating data from continuing operations for the periods presented. ___________________ (1) Revenue and average sales prices are before the impact of hedging activities. Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 to Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 Operating Revenue . During the three months ended June30, 2016 , operating revenue decreased to $11.0 million from $18.9 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to significantly lower prices for all products as well as lower sales volumes for oil and gas. Lower realized commodity prices had a negative impact on revenue of $5.0 million of which $3.8 million was attributable to oil. Lower total sales volumes had a negative impact on revenue of approximately $2.9 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 . Oil sales volumes decreased to 259 MBbl during the three months ended June30, 2016 from 333 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The decrease in oil sales volume was primarily due to natural field declines. Production decreases were offset by new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2015 which contributed 46 MBbl for the three months ended June30, 2016 . Gas sales volumes decreased to 688 MMcf for the three months ended June30, 2016 from 698 MMcf for the same period of 2015. The decrease in gas production was due to natural declines as well as pipeline constraints. The decrease was partially offset by new wells brought on line since June 30, 2015 which contributed 84 MMcf for the three months ended June30, 2016 . NGL sales volumes increased to 71 MBbl for the three months ended June30, 2016 from 49 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain Region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in North Dakota and West Texas. Lease Operating Expenses ("LOE") . LOE for the three months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $4.3 million from $6.3 million for the same period in 2015. Due to the decline in commodity prices, there has been a decrease in the cost of services. Additionally we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells. We have also significantly reduced our non-recurring projects. LOE per Boe for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $9.58 compared to $12.61 for the 24 same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was due to lower costs incurred for the three months ended June30, 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $1.2 million from $1.9 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was due to lower commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Production taxes for the three month ended June 30, 2016 were 11% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 10% for the same period of 2015. The increase is due to more production in areas with higher tax rates. General and Administrative ("G&A") Expenses. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, for the three months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $1.9 million from $2.1 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in G&A expense was primarily related to cost savings measures, including salary reductions. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation, was $4.31 for the quarter ended June30, 2016 compared to $4.14 for the same period of 2015. The increase per Boe was primarily due to lower sales volumes. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the three months ended June30, 2016 , stock-based compensation was $0.8 million compared to $1.4 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in our stock price. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization ("DD&A") Expenses. DD&A expense for the three months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $5.7 million from $8.8 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of the proved property impairment in the last six months of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. DD&A expense per Boe for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $12.76 compared to $17.69 in 2015. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of June30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the three months ended June30, 2016 increased to $1.2 million from $1.0 million for the same period of 2015. Although overall debt levels were lower for the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to 2015, our interest rate was slightly higher for the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to 2015.. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts, therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consist of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps as of June 30, 2016, and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of June 30, 2015. The estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $6.0 million as of June30, 2016 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur losses. For the three months ended June30, 2016 , we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $13.4 million , consisting of a loss on our closed contracts of $1.0 million and a loss of $12.4 million relating to our open contracts. For the three months ended June 30, 2015, we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $3.9 million , consisting of a gain of $1.5 million on our closed contracts and a loss of 25 $5.4 million related to our open contracts. We monetized a portion of our derivative contracts in April 2016. Cash flows from future settlements are expected to decrease as a result. Income Tax Expense. For the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the three months ended June 30, 2016. Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 to Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Operating Revenue . During the six months ended June30, 2016 , operating revenue decreased to $20.6 million from $37.6 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower prices for all products as well as lower sales volumes for oil and gas. Lower realized commodity prices had a negative impact on revenue of $11.4 million, of which $9.4 million was attributable to oil. Lower total volumes had a negative impact on revenue of $4.8 million. Oil sales volumes decreased to 586 MBbl during the six months ended June30, 2016 from 735 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The decrease in oil sales volume was primarily due to natural field declines. Production decreases were offset by new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2015 which contributed 117 MBbl for the six months ended June30, 2016 . Gas sales volumes decreased to 1,466 MMcf for the six months ended June30, 2016 from 1,496 MMcf for the same period of 2015. The decrease in gas sales was primarily due to natural field declines. Production decreases were partially offset by new wells brought on line. New wells brought onto production contributed 179 MMcf for the six months ended June30, 2016 . NGL sales volumes increased to 153 MBbl for the six months ended June30, 2016 from 106 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to a higher percentage of our gas production from West Texas, North Dakota and the Eagle Ford that has a higher NGL content. LOE . LOE for the six months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $9.0 million from $12.6 million for the same period of 2015. Due to the decline in commodity prices, there has been a decrease in the cost of services. Additionally, we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells. We have also significantly reduced non-recurring workover projects. LOE per Boe for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $9.17 compared to $11.52 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was due to lower service costs for the six months ended June30, 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes . Production and ad valorem taxes for the six months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $2.4 million from $3.7 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of lower commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Production taxes for the six month ended June 30, 2016 were 12% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 10% for the same period of 2015. The increase was due to more production in areas with higher tax rates. G&A Expenses. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, decreased to $3.8 million for the first six months of 2016 from $4.3 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in G&A expense was primarily related to cost saving measures, including reduced salaries. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation expense, was $3.90 for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $3.93 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was primarily due to lower costs offset by decreased volumes in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the six months ended June30, 2016 stock based compensation was $1.6 million as compared to $2.3 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to option grants in March 2016 at a lower stock price as compared to 2015. DD&A Expenses . DD&A expense for the six months ended June30, 2016 decreased to $11.6 million from $20.9 million for same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of impairments in 2015 and 2016. Our DD&A expense per Boe for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $11.76 compared to $19.14 in 2015. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' 26 equity and reported earnings. As of June30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. Total impairment for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $63.8 million , which includes $35.1 recognized in the first quarter of 2016. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $2.4 million as compared to $1.8 million for the same period of 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to higher levels of debt during the six months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . We account for derivative contract gains and losses based on realized and unrealized amounts. The realized derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period. Unrealized gains and losses are based on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. Our derivative contract transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting as prescribed by ASC 815; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, our derivative contracts consisted of commodity swaps and three way collar contracts. The net estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $6.0 million as of June30, 2016 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized losses. For the six months ended June30, 2016 , we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $12.8 million , consisting of a gain on our closed contracts of $4.2 million and a loss of $17.0 million relating to our open contracts. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $0.9 million , consisting of a gain of $5.2 million on our closed contracts and a loss of $4.3 million related to our open contracts. We monetized a portion of our derivative contracts in March and April 2016. Cash flows from future settlements are expected to decrease as a result. Income Tax Expense. For the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the six months ended June30, 2016 . Liquidity and Capital Resources General . The oil and gas industry is a highly capital intensive and cyclical business. Our capital requirements are driven principally by our obligations to service debt and to fund the following: the development and exploration of existing properties, including drilling and completion costs of wells; acquisition of interests in additional oil and gas properties; and production and transportation facilities. The amount of capital expenditures we are able to make has a direct impact on our ability to increase cash flow from operations and, thereby, will directly affect our ability to service our debt obligations and to grow the business through the development of existing properties and the acquisition of new properties. Our principal sources of capital are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, and if appropriate opportunities are available, selling of debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any of such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Capital Expenditures . Capital expenditures for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $5.7 million and $39.7 million , respectively. 27 The table below sets forth the components of these capital expenditures: During the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 our expenditures were primarily for development of our existing properties. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2016 of up to $40.0 million. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, results of current completion operations on previously drilled wells, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability of sufficient capital resources, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Our capital expenditures could also include expenditures for the acquisition of producing properties, if such opportunities arise.Additionally, the level of capital expenditures will vary during future periods depending on economic and industry conditions and commodity prices. Should the prices of oil and gas continue to remain at depressed levels or decline further, our costs of operations increase or if our production volumes decrease, our cash flows will decrease which may result in a reduction of the capital expenditure budget. If we decrease our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to offset oil and gas production decreases caused by natural field declines. Sources of Capital. The net funds provided by and/or used in each of the operating, investing and financing activities are summarized in the following table and discussed in further detail below: Operating activities for the six months ended June30, 2016 provided $12.5 million in cash compared to using $0.2 million in the same period of 2015. Non-cash expense items and net changes in operating assets and liabilities accounted for most of these funds. Investing activities used $1.2 million during the six months ended June30, 2016 , proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties of $4.5 million offset expenditures of $5.7 million . Investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 used $39.5 million . Funds used during the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were primarily for the development of our existing properties. Financing activities used $13.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to providing $37.0 million for the same period of 2015. Funds used during the six months ended June30, 2016 were primarily payments on borrowings under our credit facility offset by proceeds from the equity offering in May 2016. Funds provided during the six months ended June 30, 2015 were primarily proceeds from borrowings under our credit facility. Future Capital Resources . Our principal sources of capital going forward are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, and if appropriate opportunities are available, issuing of debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing our derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash from operating activities is dependent upon commodity prices and production volumes.Depressed commodity prices have reduced, and further decreases in commodity prices from current levels could reduce our cash flows from operations.This could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our exploration and development plans.Unless we otherwise expand and develop reserves, our production volumes may decline as reserves are produced.In the future we may continue to sell producing properties, which could further reduce our production volumes. To offset the loss in production volumes resulting from natural field declines and sales of producing properties, we must conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional producing properties or identify and develop additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We believe our numerous drilling opportunities will allow us to increase our production volumes; 28 however, our drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including availability of capital and the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be found.If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production could also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility could also decline. The risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 60% of our total estimated proved reserves on a BOE basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were classified as undeveloped. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell producing properties. We have also sold debt and equity securities in the past, and may sell additional debt and equity securities in the future when the opportunity presents itself. Contractual Obligations. We are committed to making cash payments in the future on the following types of agreements: Long-term debt, and Operating leases for office facilities. Below is a schedule of the future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place as of June30, 2016 : ___________________________ (1) These amounts represent the balances outstanding under our credit facility, the rig loan agreement and the real estate lien note. These payments assume that we will not borrow additional funds. (2) Interest expense assumes the balances of long-term debt at the end of the period and current effective interest rates. (3) Lease on office space in Dickinson, North Dakota, which expires on October 31, 2016, office space in Lusk, Wyoming, which will expire on December 31, 2016 and office space in Denver, Colorado which will expire on December 31, 2016. We maintain a reserve for costs associated with future site restoration related to the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. At June30, 2016 , our reserve for these obligations totaled $9.8 million for which no contractual commitments exist. For additional information relating to this obligation, see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At June30, 2016 we had no existing off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC regulations, that have, or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contingencies. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. At June30, 2016 , we were not engaged in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on us. 29 Long-Term Indebtedness. Long-term debt consisted of the following: Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of June30, 2016 , $95.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At June30, 2016 , we had a borrowing base of $130.0 million based on an amendment on April 22, 2016, which we refer to as the April 2016 Amendment. Unless the redetermination scheduled to occur with the delivery of our internal engineering report on or about August 31, 2016, which we refer to as the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, has become effective prior to October 1, 2016, the borrowing base will be automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016, unless it has been otherwise redetermined prior to that date. Under the terms of the April 2016 Amendment, outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) between April 1, 2016 to the earlier of October 1, 2016 and the effective date of the Fall 2016 Scheduled Redetermination, 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At June 30, 2016, the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.96% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with the April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. 30 Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net income (loss), including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At June30, 2016 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of June30, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 10.71 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 2.25 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.26 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The April 2016 Amendment also included certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million, then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. 31 Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011 Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $1.6 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July 20, 2023. As of June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $4.0 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. Hedging Activities Our results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices and we seek to reduce our exposure to price volatility by hedging our production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. We have entered into commodity swaps on approximately 70% of our estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on reserve estimates as of June 30, 2016) through December 31, 2016, 90% for 2017, and 88% for 2018. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe that we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production that has been hedged.We have sustained, and in the future will sustain, losses on our derivative contracts when market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. If the disparity between our contract prices and market prices continues, we will sustain gains or losses on our derivative contracts. While gains and losses resulting from the periodic mark to market of our open contracts do not impact our cash flow from operations, gains and losses from settlements of our closed contracts do impact our cash flow from operations. In addition, as our derivative contracts expire over time, we expect to enter into new derivative contracts at then-current market prices.If the prices at which we hedge future production are significantly lower than our existing derivative contracts, our future cash flow from operations would likely be materially lower. 32Item 1. Financial Statements ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 6 A BRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED) (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 7 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands except per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 8 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 9 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Basis of Presentation The accounting policies followed by Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") are set forth in the notes to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016. Such policies have been continued without change. Also, refer to the notes to those financial statements for additional details of the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. All material items included in those notes have not changed except as a result of normal transactions in the interim, or as disclosed within this report. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited by our independent registered public accountants, and in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations. Any and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Although management believes the unaudited interim related disclosures in these condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The results of operations and the cash flows for the period ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the consolidated audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Consolidation Principles The terms "Abraxas," "Abraxas Petroleum," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, including Raven Drilling, LLC ("Raven Drilling"). Rig Accounting In accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, no income is to be recognized in connection with contractual drilling services performed in connection with properties in which the Company or its affiliates hold an ownership, or other economic interest. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation is to be credited to the full cost pool and recognized through lower amortization as reserves are produced. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassification of Prior Period Balances Certain amounts in the prior period presented have been reclassified to conform to the current period financial statement presentation. These reclassifications have no effect on previously reported net loss. New Accounting Standards and Disclosures In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments . The amended guidance addresses specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing existing diversity in practice. The amendments in this update apply to all entities required to present a statement of cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. Amendments should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. If it is impracticable to apply the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of 10 the earliest date practicable. The Company has not yet determined what the effects of adopting this updated guidance will be on its statement of cash flows. In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) : Contingent put and call options in debt instruments , which clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) : Principal Versus Agent Considerations (reporting revenue gross versus net),which clarifies the implementation guidance on principle versus agent considerations. The amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2017, and early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718) : Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which includes provisions intended to simplify various aspects related to how share-based compensation payments are accounted for and presented in the financial statements. This amendment will be effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation andOption Plans Stock Options The Company currently utilizes a standard option-pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to stock options for the periods presented: The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for the nine months ended September30, 2016 (shares in thousands): Additional information related to stock options at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: 11 As of September30, 2016 , there was approximately $3.3 million of unamortized compensation expense related to outstanding stock options that will be recognized in 2016 through 2020. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are awards of common stock that are subject to restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the awardee terminates employment with the Company prior to the lapse of the restrictions. The fair value of such stock was determined using the closing price on the grant date and compensation expense is recorded over the applicable vesting periods. The following table summarizes the Company's restricted stock activity for the nine months ended September30, 2016 : The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock for the periods presented: As of September30, 2016 , there was approximately $2.2 million of unamortized compensation expense relating to outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized in 2016 through 2020. Oil and Gas Properties The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.Under this method, all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with acquisition of properties and successful as well as unsuccessful exploration and development activities are capitalized. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties and estimated future development costs, excluding unproved properties, are based on the unit-of-production method based on proved reserves.Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties, less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves based on unescalated prices discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. Costs in excess of the present value of estimated net revenue from proved reserves discounted at 10% are charged to proved property impairment expense.No gain or loss is recognized upon sale or disposition of oil and gas properties for full cost accounting companies with proceeds accounted for as an adjustment of capitalized cost. An exception to this rule occurs when the adjustment to the full cost pool results in a significant alteration of the relationship between capitalized cost and proved reserves. The Company applies the full cost ceiling test on a quarterly basis on the date of the latest balance sheet presented. At September30, 2015 our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $59.9 million , resulting in the recognition of an impairment for the three and nine months ended of $59.9 million . At September30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $3.8 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment for the three and nine months then ended of $3.8 million and $67.6 million respectively. Impairment calculations did not consider the impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Further write-downs in subsequent quarters are reasonably likely to occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices continue to fall as compared to the commodity prices used in prior quarters. 12 Restoration, Removal and Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require the Company to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum substances at various sites.Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future economic benefit.Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that have no future economic benefit are expensed. Liabilities for expenditures of a non-capital nature are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation is probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are generally undiscounted unless the timing of cash payments for the liability or component is fixed or reliably determinable. The Company accounts for future site restoration obligations based on the guidance of ASC 410 which addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. ASC 410 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset's retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its then present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the related asset. For all periods presented, we have included estimated future costs of abandonment and dismantlement in our full cost amortization base and amortize these costs as a component of our depletion expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the Company's future site restoration obligation transactions for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and the year ended December 31, 2015: 2.Income Taxes The Company records income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 , there was no income tax benefit due to the fact we are in a loss position and have recorded a full valuation allowance against our net deferred taxes. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of September30, 2016 , the Company did not have any accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2012 through 2015 remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject. At December 31, 2015, the Company had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $201.9 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes.The loss carryforward will expire in varying amounts through 2035, if not utilized. Uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards therefore, we have established a valuation allowance of $103.7 million for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2015. 3. Long-Term Debt The following is a description of the Company's debt as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively: 13 Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of September30, 2016 , $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At September30, 2016 , we had a borrowing base of $130.0 million , based on an amendment on April 22, 2016, which we refer to as the April 2016 Amendment. In accordance with the terms of the April 2016 Amendment, the borrowing base was automatically reduced to $120.0 million effective October 1, 2016. The borrowing base was further reduced to $115.0 million on October 31, 2016 in connection with the regularly scheduled redetermination, which we refer to as the Fall 2016 Redetermination. Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) from April 1, 2016 to October 1, 2016 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At September30, 2016 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 3.02% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with the April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. One of the ranches was sold in September 2016 in connection with the sale of our Portilla oil and gas properties. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and 14 any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At September30, 2016 , we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of September30, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 9.65 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 2.37 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 1.73 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The April 2016 Amendment, also included certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011, Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The original principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $1.1 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note 15 We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July20, 2023 . As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $3.9 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. 4. Earnings per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Basic earnings per share, excluding any dilutive effects of stock options and unvested restricted stock, is computed by dividing net loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted loss per share is computed similar to basic; however diluted loss per share reflects the assumed conversion of all potentially dilutive securities. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 , 1,766 and 1,724 potential shares related to unvested restricted shares and options were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share since their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to losses incurred in the periods. 5. Hedging Program and Derivatives The derivative contracts we utilize are based on index prices that may and often do differ from the actual oil and gas prices realized in our operations.Our derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. There are no netting agreements relating to these derivative contracts and there is no policy to offset. 16 The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts as of September30, 2016 : Fixed price swaps: Subsequent to September30, 2016 , we entered into the following derivative contracts. The following table illustrates the impact of derivative contracts on the Company's balance sheet: Gains and losses from derivative activities are reflected as "(Gain) loss on derivative contracts" in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. 6. Financial Instruments Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. 17 A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The Company is further required to assess the creditworthiness of the counter-party to the derivative contract. The results of the assessment of non-performance risk, based on the counter-party's credit risk, could result in an adjustment of the carrying value of the derivative instrument. The following tables sets forth information about the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , and indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): The Company's derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps as of September30, 2016 , and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of December 31, 2015. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Three-way collar contracts combine a long put, a short put and a short call. Under a collar, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The use of the long put combined with a short put allows us to sell a call at a higher price, thus establishing a higher ceiling and limits our exposure to future settlement payments while also restricting our downward risk to the difference between the long put and the short put if the price drops below the price of the short put. This allows us to settle our contracts for the market price plus the spread between the short put and the long put in a case where the market price has fallen below the short put fixed price. The NYMEX-based fixed price derivative contracts and three-way collars are indexed to NYMEX futures contracts, which are actively traded, for the underlying commodity and are commonly used in the energy industry. A number of financial institutions and large energy companies act as counter-parties to these type of derivative contracts. As the fair value of NYMEX-based fixed price swap contracts are based on a number of inputs, including contractual volumes and prices stated in each derivative contract, current and future NYMEX commodity prices, and quantitative models that are based upon readily observable market parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, we have characterized these derivative contracts as Level 2. In order to verify the third party valuation, we enter the various inputs into a model and compare our results to the third party for reasonableness. The fair value of the collar instruments are based on inputs that are not as observable as the fixed price swaps. In addition to the actively quoted market price, variables such as time value, volatility and other unobservable inputs are used. Accordingly, these instruments have been classified as Level 3. The following is additional information for the Company's recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . 18 Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The Company records certain assets and liabilities at fair value related to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities that may be acquired in a business combination and thereby measured at fair value and the initial recognition of future site restoration obligations for which fair value is used. The future site restoration obligation estimates are derived from historical costs as well as management's expectation of future cost environments. As there is no corroborating market activity to support the assumptions used, the Company has designated these liabilities as Level 3. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's future site restoration is presented in Note 1. Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities and/or liquid nature of these assets and liabilities. The carrying value of our debt approximates fair value as the interest rates are market rates and this debt is considered Level 2. 7. Commitments and Contingencies From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. At September30, 2016 , the Company was not involved in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 8. Subsequent Events Subsequent to September 30, 2016 our Borrowing Base was redetermined to $115.0 million . This Borrowing Base is fully conforming and represents a $5.0 million reduction from the Company's previously fully conforming Borrowing Base of $120.0 million . All other terms of the borrowing base remain unchanged. In connection with the redetermination of the Borrowing Base, we entered into the following derivative contracts. 19 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016, and the historical unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Except as otherwise noted, all tabular amounts are in thousands, except per unit values. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes from the Critical Accounting Policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. General We are an independent energy company primarily engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas in the United States. We focus on assets with a high working interest and low geologic risk as well as operational and infrastructure control. We seek strong full cycle rate of return and low risk exploitable upside using the Company's operating experience. We believe that we have a number of development opportunities on our properties and intend to expand upon our development activities with complementary exploration projects in our core areas of operation. Success in our development and exploration activities is critical in the maintenance and growth of our current production levels and associated reserves. Factors Affecting Our Financial Results Our financial results depend upon many factors which significantly affect our results of operations including the following: commodity prices and the effectiveness of our hedging arrangements; the level of total sales volumes of oil, gas and NGL; the availability of and our ability to raise additional capital resources and provide liquidity to meet cash flow needs; the level of and interest rates on borrowings; and the level and success of exploration and development activity Commodity Prices and Hedging Arrangements . The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and gas production. The prices we receive for our production are dependent upon spot market prices, differentials and the effectiveness of our derivative contracts, which we sometimes refer to as hedging arrangements. Substantially all of our sales of oil and gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. Significant declines in prices for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Oil and gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, worldwide demand for, and supplies of oil, NGL and gas, the availability of other worldwide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, we are unable to predict what changes may occur in oil, NGL, and gas prices in the future. The market price of oil, NGL and gas in 2015, and during the first nine months of 2016, have impacted the amount of cash generated from operating activities, and have in turn impacted our financial position. 20 During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , the NYMEX future price for oil averaged $41.54 per Bbl as compared to $50.98 per Bbl in 2015. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , the NYMEX future spot price for gas averaged $2.35 per MMBtu compared to $2.76 per MMBtu in 2015. Prices closed on September30, 2016 at $48.24 per Bbl of oil and $2.91 per MMBtu of gas, compared to closing on September30, 2015 at $45.09 per Bbl of oil and $2.52 per MMBtu of gas. At November 7, 2016, prices closed at $44.89 per Bbl of oil and $2.82 per MMBtu of gas. If commodity prices remain at these levels or decline further, our revenue and cash flow from operations will also likely decline.In addition, lower commodity prices could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically.If oil and gas prices remain depressed or continue to decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations will also likely decrease which could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our drilling activities. Such declines have required, and in future periods could also require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets which would also cause a reduction in net income. The realized prices that we receive for our production differ from NYMEX futures and spot market prices, principally due to: basis differentials which are dependent on actual delivery location; adjustments for BTU content; quality of the hydrocarbons; and gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table sets forth our average differentials for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015: _____________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of derivative activities. At September30, 2016 , our derivative contracts consisted of fixed price swaps. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Our derivative contracts equate to approximately 70% of the estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on our reserve estimates as of June 30, 2016) through December31, 2016, 90% in 2017, 88% in 2018 and 81% for 2019. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow.We have in the past and will in the future sustain losses on our derivative contracts if market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we realized a loss of $10.3 million , consisting of a gain of $3.2 million on closed contracts and a loss of $13.5 million related to open contracts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, we realized a gain of $13.1 million consisting of a gain of $6.9 million on closed contracts and a gain of $6.2 million related to open contracts. We have not designated any of these derivative contracts as hedges as prescribed by applicable accounting rules. The following table sets forth our derivative contracts at September30, 2016 : Fixed Price Swaps: 21 Subsequent to September30, 2016 we entered into the following derivative contracts. At September30, 2016 , the aggregate fair market value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $2.3 million . Production Volumes. Our proved reserves will decline as oil and gas is produced, unless we find, acquire or develop additional properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities.Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve estimates as of December31, 2015, we anticipate our proved developed producing reserves to decline 33%, 26% and 15% in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. Thereafter our reserves are expected to decline an estimated 10% annually.These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially higher.While we have had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, we have not always been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and property sales. Our ability to acquire or find additional reserves in the future will be dependent, in part, upon the amount of available funds for acquisition, exploration and development projects. We had capital expenditures during the nine months ended September30, 2016 of $24.6 million related to our exploration and development activities. We are authorized to make capital expenditures in 2016 of up to $40.0 million. Based on current service cost trends, we anticipate capital expenditures to be approximately $35.0 million in 2016. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. The following table presents historical net production volumes for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015: Availability of Capital . As described more fully under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, our sources of capital are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, and if appropriate opportunities are available, issuing debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing our derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all.On May 25, 2016, we completed a stock offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $27.2 million. The net proceeds from this stock issuance were used to repay borrowings under our credit facility. As of September30, 2016 our borrowing base was $130.0 million. Under the terms of the April 2016 Amendment, the borrowing base was automatically reduced to $120.0 million on October 1, 2016. The borrowing base was further reduced to $115.0 million on October 31, 2016 in connection with the Fall 2016 Redetermination. Borrowings and Interest . At September30, 2016 , we had a total of $90.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and total indebtedness of $95.0 million (including the current portion). If interest expense increases as a result of higher interest rates or increased borrowings, more cash flow from operations would be used to meet debt service requirements.As a result, we would need to increase our cash flow from operations in order to fund the development of our drilling opportunities which, in turn, will be dependent upon the level of our production volumes and commodity prices. 22 Exploration and Development Activity. We believe that our high quality asset base, high degree of operational control and inventory of drilling projects position us for future growth. At December 31, 2015, we operated properties accounting for approximately 95% of our PV-10, giving us substantial control over the timing and incurrence of operating and capital expenditures. We have identified numerous additional drilling locations on our existing leaseholds, the successful development of which we believe could significantly increase our production and proved reserves. Over the five years ended December 31, 2015, we drilled or participated in 145 gross (55.8 net) wells of which 97% were productive. Our future oil and gas production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties and our proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production may also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility may also decline. In addition, approximately 60% of our estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves or develop our existing undeveloped reserves, in which case our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Operational Update Williston Basin At our North Fork prospect, in McKenzie County, North Dakota, the Stenehjem 10H, 12H and 14H wells targeting the Three Forks averaged 1,059 Boepd (786 barrels of oil per day, 1,642 Mcf of natural gas per day) over their first 30 days of production. The Stenehjem 11H, 13H and 15H wells targeting the Middle Bakken averaged 1,226 Boepd (915 barrels of oil per day, 1,864 Mcf of natural gas per day) over their first 30 days of production. We own a working interest of approximately 78% in Stenehjem 10H-15H. T he 30-day average rates represent the highest 30 days of production and do not include the impact of natural gas liquids and shrinkage at the processing plant and include flared gas. Austin Chalk At our Jourdanton prospect in Atascosa County, Texas, the Bulls Eye 101H is currently on production. Although the well has not achieved the anticipated initial production rate to date, it did achieve reasonable production rates and has shown a very stable production profile. The well continues to clean up having recovered approximately 40% of its load water and over 15,000 Boes to date. We will update the market with more specific numbers once volumes stabilize. We own a 100% working interest in the Bulls Eye 101H. Permian In Ward County, Texas, we successfully drilled the Caprito 99-101H to a total depth of 15,665 feet. The completion of the Caprito 99-101H has been delayed due to completion issues on a third party's well, which has delayed the arrival of the frac fleet. We have been advised by the third party frac company that the rig up date for our planned 25 stage completion of the Caprito 99-101H is now November 9. We own a 100% working interest in the Caprito 99-101H. 2016 Outlook Market prices for oil, gas and NGL are inherently volatile. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the future prices for the commodities we produce and sell. Current market fundamentals indicate prices for oil, gas and NGL will continue to be depressed for the remainder of 2016. Although changes in OPEC production strategies, geopolitical risks or other factors could impact current forecasts, we anticipate weak commodity prices throughout 2016. Depressed prices for oil, gas and NGL will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, sales of non-core assets and other capital transactions, when available. Cash flow from operations is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is the price of the oil, gas and NGL we produce and sell. Our consolidated cash flow from operations increased in the first nine months of 2016 primarily as a result of the monetization of some of our derivative positions. Availability under our credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $115.0 million based on the Fall 2016 Redetermination . The amount of 23 the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. The lenders under our credit facility can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. As a result of the sharp decline in commodity prices, we recorded an impairment to our proved properties of $128.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and an additional impairment of $67.6 million for the first nine months of 2016. The amount of any additional impairment is contingent upon many factors such as the price of oil, gas and NGL for the remainder of 2016, increases or decreases in our reserve base, changes in estimated costs and expenses, and oil and gas property acquisitions, which could increase, decrease or eliminate the need for such impairments. While we will continue to operate and develop our portfolio of assets, we are committed to protecting our balance sheet and managing our capital programs. For 2017, Abraxas anticipates drilling expenditures to approximate cash flow. As a result, we can significantly reduce our capital budget in response to lower commodity prices. We are also committed to reducing our general and administrative, or "(G&A)" and field-level operating costs commensurate with our reduced, but focused, activity level. Abraxas President and CEO took a voluntary salary reduction of 20% effective September 1, 2015, and effective February 1, 2016, the remaining named executive officers of Abraxas took a voluntary salary reduction of 20%. Results of Operations Selected Operating Data . The following table sets forth operating data from continuing operations for the periods presented. ___________________ (1) Revenue and average sales prices are before the impact of hedging activities. Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 to Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Operating Revenue . During the three months ended September30, 2016 , operating revenue decreased to $14.0 million from $16.1 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower prices for all products as well as lower sales volumes for oil. Lower realized commodity prices had a negative impact on revenue of $1.0 million of which $0.5 million was attributable to oil. Lower oil sales volumes had a negative impact on revenue of approximately $1.2 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 . Oil sales volumes decreased to 334 MBbl during the three months ended September30, 2016 from 365 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The decrease in oil sales volume was primarily due to natural field declines and property sales. We sold non-core assets effective June 1, 2016 which contributed 14.4 MBbl in the third quarter of 2015. Production decreases 24 were partially offset by new wells brought on line since the third quarter of 2015 which contributed 150 MBbl for the three months ended September30, 2016 . Gas sales volumes increased to 765 MMcf for the three months ended September30, 2016 from 750 MMcf for the same period of 2015. The increase in gas production was due to new wells brought on line since September 30, 2015 which contributed 184 MMcf for the three months ended September30, 2016 , which was partially offset by natural declines as well as pipeline constraints. NGL sales volumes increased to 86 MBbl for the three months ended September30, 2016 from 62 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain Region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in North Dakota and West Texas. Lease Operating Expenses ("LOE") . LOE for the three months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $4.6 million from $5.2 million for the same period in 2015. Due to the decline in commodity prices, there has been a decrease in the cost of services. Additionally we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells, as well as sales of non-core properties. We have also significantly reduced our non-recurring projects. LOE per Boe for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $8.40 compared to $9.48 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was due to lower costs incurred for the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $1.2 million from $1.6 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was due to lower commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Production taxes for the three month ended September30, 2016 were 9% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 10% for the same period of 2015. General and Administrative ("G&A") Expense. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, for the three months ended September30, 2016 increased to $2.0 million from $1.8 million for the same period of 2015. The increase in G&A expense was primarily the result of less G&A expense being capitalized due to decrease drilling activities, which was offset by cost savings measures, including salary reductions. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation, was $3.64 for the quarter ended September30, 2016 compared to $3.29 for the same period of 2015. The increase per Boe was primarily due to higher costs and lower production. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, stock-based compensation was $0.8 million for each period. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization ("DD&A") Expense. DD&A expense for the three months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $6.4 million from $10.2 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of the proved property impairment in 2015 and the first nine months of 2016. DD&A expense per Boe for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $11.63 compared to $18.40 in 2015. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of September30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $3.8 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. As of September30, 2015 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $59.9 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. 25 Interest Expense. Interest expense for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was constant at $1.0 million . Although overall debt levels were lower for the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to 2015, our interest rate was slightly higher for the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to 2015. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps as of September30, 2016 , and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of September30, 2015 . The estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $2.3 million as of September30, 2016 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur losses. For the three months ended September30, 2016 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $2.4 million , consisting of a loss on closed contracts of $1.1 million and a gain of $3.5 million relating to open contracts. For the three months ended September30, 2015 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $12.2 million , consisting of a gain of $1.7 million on closed contracts and a gain of $10.5 million related to open contracts. We monetized a portion of our derivative contracts in March and April 2016. Cash flows from future settlements are expected to decrease as a result. Income Tax Expense. For the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 to Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 Operating Revenue . During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , operating revenue decreased to $34.5 million from $53.7 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower prices for all products as well as lower sales volumes for oil and gas. Lower realized commodity prices had a negative impact on revenue of $13.2 million, of which $9.7 million was attributable to oil. Lower sales volumes for oil and gas had a negative impact on revenue of $6.2 million. Oil sales volumes decreased to 919 MBbl during the nine months ended September30, 2016 from 1,100 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The decrease in oil sales volume was primarily due to natural field declines and sales of non-core properties. We sold non-core properties effective June 1, 2016 which contributed 43.8 MBbl during the first nine months of 2015. Production decreases were offset by new wells brought on line since the third quarter of 2015 which contributed 267 MBbl for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . Gas sales volumes decreased to 2,232 MMcf for the nine months ended September30, 2016 from 2,246 MMcf for the same period of 2015. The decrease in gas sales was primarily due to natural field declines. Production decreases were partially offset by new wells brought on line. New wells brought onto production contributed 364 MMcf for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . NGL sales volumes increased to 239 MBbl for the nine months ended September30, 2016 from 169 MBbl for the same period of 2015. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to a higher percentage of our gas production from West Texas, North Dakota and the Eagle Ford that has a higher NGL content. LOE . LOE for the nine months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $13.6 million from $17.8 million for the same period of 2015. Due to the decline in commodity prices, there has been a decrease in the cost of services. Additionally, we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells. We have also significantly reduced non-recurring workover projects. LOE per Boe for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $8.89 compared to $10.83 for the same period of 2015. The decrease per Boe was due to lower service costs for the nine months ended September30, 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes . Production and ad valorem taxes for the nine months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $3.6 million from $5.3 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of lower commodity prices and lower sales volumes. Production taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were 10% of total oil, gas and NGL sales. G&A Expenses. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, decreased to $5.8 million for the first nine months of 2016 from $6.1 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease in G&A expense was primarily related to cost saving measures, including reduced salaries. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation expense, was $3.81 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to $3.71 for the same period of 2015. The increase per Boe was primarily due to the decrease in volumes produced offset by the lower costs in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015. 26 Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 stock based compensation was $2.4 million as compared to $3.1 million for the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to option grants in 2016 at a lower stock price as compared to 2015. DD&A Expenses . DD&A expense for the nine months ended September30, 2016 decreased to $17.9 million from $31.0 million for same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of impairments in 2015 and 2016. Our DD&A expense per Boe for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $11.72 compared to $18.89 in 2015. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of September30, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $3.8 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. Total impairment for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $67.6 million , which includes $63.8 recognized in the first half of 2016. As of September30, 2015 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $59.9 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $3.3 million as compared to $2.8 million for the same period of 2015. The increase in 2016 was due to higher interest rates during the nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . We account for derivative contract gains and losses based on realized and unrealized amounts. The realized derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period. Unrealized gains and losses are based on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. Our derivative contract transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , our derivative contracts consisted of commodity swaps. The net estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net liability of approximately $2.3 million as of September30, 2016 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized losses. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $10.3 million , consisting of a gain on closed contracts of $3.2 million and a loss of $13.5 million relating to open contracts. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $13.1 million , consisting of a gain of $6.9 million on closed contracts and a gain of $6.2 million related to open contracts. We monetized a portion of our derivative contracts in March and April 2016. Cash flows from future settlements are expected to decrease as a result. Income Tax Expense. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the nine months ended September30, 2016 . Liquidity and Capital Resources General . The oil and gas industry is a highly capital intensive and cyclical business. Our capital requirements are driven principally by our obligations to service debt and to fund the following: 27 the development and exploration of existing properties, including drilling and completion costs of wells; acquisition of interests in additional oil and gas properties; and production and transportation facilities. The amount of capital expenditures we are able to make has a direct impact on our ability to increase cash flow from operations and, thereby, will directly affect our ability to service our debt obligations and to grow the business through the development of existing properties and the acquisition of new properties. Our principal sources of capital are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, and if appropriate opportunities are available, selling of debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Based upon current oil, gas and NGL price expectations and our commodity derivatives positions, we anticipate that our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the remainder of 2016 including our planned capital expenditures. On September 20, 2016 we closed on the sale of our Portilla oil and gas properties as well as related surface for approximately $13.1 million. Proceeds from this sale were used to reduce amounts outstanding under our credit facility. Capital Expenditures . Capital expenditures for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $24.6 million and $52.6 million , respectively. The table below sets forth the components of these capital expenditures: During the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 our expenditures were primarily for development of our existing properties. We are authorized to make capital expenditures in 2016 of up to $40.0 million. Based on current service cost trends, we anticipate capital expenditures to be approximately $35.0 million in 2016. The 2016 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Sources of Capital. The net funds provided by and/or used in each of the operating, investing and financing activities are summarized in the following table and discussed in further detail below: Operating activities for the nine months ended September30, 2016 provided $22.2 million in cash compared to providing $0.1 million in the same period of 2015. Non-cash expense items, net changes in operating assets and liabilities and the monetization of hedges accounted for most of these funds. Investing activities used $7.0 million during the nine months ended September30, 2016 , capital expenditures of $24.6 million , and were offset by proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties of $13.6 million for the period. Investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 used $52.5 28 million . Funds used during the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were primarily for the development of our existing properties. Financing activities used $18.7 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to providing $48.6 million for the same period of 2015. Funds used during the nine months ended September30, 2016 were primarily payments on borrowings under our credit facility offset by proceeds from the equity offering in May 2016. Funds provided during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were primarily proceeds from borrowings under our credit facility. Future Capital Resources . Our principal sources of capital going forward are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, and if appropriate opportunities are available, issuing of debt or equity securities, selling assets or monetizing our derivative contracts, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Cash from operating activities is dependent upon commodity prices and production volumes.Depressed commodity prices have reduced, and further decreases in commodity prices from current levels could reduce our cash flows from operations.This could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our exploration and development plans.Unless we otherwise expand and develop reserves, our production volumes may decline as reserves are produced.In the future we may continue to sell producing properties, which could further reduce our production volumes. To offset the loss in production volumes resulting from natural field declines and sales of producing properties, we must conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional producing properties or identify and develop additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We believe our numerous drilling opportunities will allow us to increase our production volumes; however, our drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including availability of capital and the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be found.If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production could also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility could also decline. The risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 60% of our total estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (19% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2015 were classified as undeveloped. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell producing properties. We have also sold debt and equity securities in the past, and may sell additional debt and equity securities in the future when the opportunity presents itself. Contractual Obligations. We are committed to making cash payments in the future on the following types of agreements: Long-term debt, and Operating leases for office facilities. Below is a schedule of the future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place as of September30, 2016 : ___________________________ (1) These amounts represent the balances outstanding under our credit facility, the rig loan agreement and the real estate lien note. These payments assume that we will not borrow additional funds. (2) Interest expense assumes the balances of long-term debt at the end of the period and current effective interest rates. (3) Lease on office space in Dickinson, North Dakota, which expires on October 31, 2018, office space in Lusk, Wyoming, which will expire on December 31, 2016 and office space in Denver, Colorado which will expire on December 31, 2017. We maintain a reserve for costs associated with future site restoration related to the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. At September30, 2016 , our reserve for these obligations totaled $8.6 million for which no contractual commitments exist. For additional information relating to this obligation, see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 29 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At September30, 2016 we had no existing off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC regulations, that have, or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contingencies. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. At September30, 2016 , we were not engaged in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on us. Long-Term Indebtedness. Long-term debt consisted of the following: Credit Facility We have a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of September30, 2016 , $90.0 million was outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations.The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount. At September30, 2016 , we had a borrowing base of $130.0 million , based on the April 2016 Amendment. In accordance with the terms of the April 2016 Amendment, the borrowing base was automatically reduced to $120.0 million effective October 1, 2016. The borrowing base was further reduced to $115.0 million on October 31, 2016 in connection with the Fall 2016 Redetermination. Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (x) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, (y) between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 , 0.25% per annum plus the rates set forth below and (z) at all other times, at (a) the greater of (1) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (2) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (3) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At September30, 2016 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 3.02% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted 30 to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets, other than Raven Drilling. In connection with the April 2016 Amendment, we also agreed to grant our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building (in addition to the lien granted to the lender under our building loan described below) and two ranches we own, none of which had previously secured our obligations under the credit facility. One of the ranches was sold in September 2016 in connection with the sale of our Portilla oil and gas properties. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net income (loss), including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the office building, Raven Drilling'srig loan and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At September30, 2016 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of September30, 2016 , the interest coverage ratio was 9.65 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 2.37 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 1.73 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The April 2016 Amendment also included certain additional covenants including: 100% of the net proceeds from any sale of any of our properties occurring between April 1, 2016 and October 1, 2016 must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million, then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and 31 granting the lenders a security interest in at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. Rig Loan Agreement On September 19, 2011 Raven Drilling entered into a rig loan agreement, secured by our Oilwell 2,000 HP diesel electric drilling rig (the "Collateral").The principal amount of the note was $7.0 million and bears interest at 4.26% .The note is payable in monthly interest and principal payments in the amount of $179,695 . Subject to earlier prepayment provisions and events of default, the stated maturity date of the note is February14, 2017 . As of September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $1.1 million and $2.6 million , respectively, were outstanding under the rig loan agreement. The Company has guaranteed Raven Drilling's obligations under the rig loan agreement and associated note.Obligations under the rig loan agreement are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in the Collateral. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July 20, 2023. As of September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, $3.9 million and $4.1 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. Hedging Activities Our results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices and we seek to reduce our exposure to price volatility by hedging our production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. We have entered into commodity swaps on approximately 79% of our estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on reserve estimates as of June 30, 2016) through December 31, 2016, 90% for 2017, 88% for 2018 and 81% for 2019. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe that we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production that has been hedged.We have sustained, and in the future will sustain, losses on our derivative contracts when market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. If the disparity between our contract prices and market prices continues, we will sustain gains or losses on our derivative contracts. While gains and losses resulting from the periodic mark to market of our open contracts do not impact our cash flow from operations, gains and losses from settlements of our closed contracts do impact our cash flow from operations. In addition, as our derivative contracts expire over time, we expect to enter into new derivative contracts at then-current market prices.If the prices at which we hedge future production are significantly lower than our existing derivative contracts, our future cash flow from operations would likely be materially lower. 32Item 1. Financial Statements ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 6 A BRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED) (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 7 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands except per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 8 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 9 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Basis of Presentation The accounting policies followed by Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") are set forth in the notes to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 16, 2017. Such policies have been continued without change. Also, refer to the notes to those financial statements for additional details of the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. All material items included in those notes have not changed except as a result of normal transactions in the interim, or as disclosed within this report. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited by our independent registered public accountants, and in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations. Any and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Although management believes the unaudited interim related disclosures in these condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The results of operations and the cash flows for the period ended March31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the consolidated audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Consolidation Principles The terms "Abraxas," "Abraxas Petroleum," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, including Raven Drilling, LLC ("Raven Drilling"). Rig Accounting In accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, no income is to be recognized in connection with contractual drilling services performed in connection with properties in which the Company or its affiliates hold an ownership, or other economic interest. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation is to be credited to the full cost pool and recognized through lower amortization as reserves are produced. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recently Adopted and New Accounting Standards and Disclosures In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business, which changes the definition of a business to assist entities with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is deemed to be a business. Determining whether a transferred set constitutes a business is important because the accounting for a business combination differs from that of an asset acquisition. The definition of a business also affects the accounting for dispositions. Under the new standard, when substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single asset, or a group of similar assets, the assets acquired would not represent a business and business combination accounting would not be required. The new standard may result in more transactions being accounted for as asset acquisitions rather than business combinations. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and shall be applied prospectively. It is not anticipated that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments provide guidance on the following eight specific cash flow issues: Debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing; contingent 10 consideration payments made after a business combination; proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies; distributions received from equity method investees; beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. It is not anticipated that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 " Leases, " which supersedes ASC 840 "Leases " and creates a new topic, ASC 842 "Leases." This update requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a lease asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than 12 months on its balance sheet. The update also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures surrounding leases. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. This update will be applied using a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the effect of this update on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. It is not anticipated that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. I n May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The objective of ASU 2014-09 is greater consistency and comparability across industries by using a five-step model to recognize revenue from customer contracts. ASU 2014-09 also contains some new disclosure requirements under GAAP. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Deferral of the Effective Date . ASU 2015-14 defers the effective date of the new revenue standard by one year, making it effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. In 2016, the FASB issued additional accounting standards updates to clarify the implementation guidance of ASU 2014-09. Through March2017, the Company made progress in identifying contracts for review and evaluating the new disclosure requirements.The Company expects to complete its evaluations of the impacts of the accounting and disclosure requirements on its business processes, controls and systems in the second half of 2017, and will continue to evaluate guidance from accounting regulatory agencies as it becomes available. Stock-Based Compensation andOption Plans Stock Options The Company currently utilizes a standard option-pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to stock options for the periods presented: The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for the three months ended March31, 2017 (shares in thousands): 11 As of March31, 2017 , there was approximately $2.6 million of unamortized compensation expense related to outstanding stock options that will be recognized in 2017 through 2020. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are awards of common stock that are subject to restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the awardee terminates employment with the Company prior to the lapse of the restrictions. The fair value of such stock was determined using the closing price on the grant date and compensation expense is recorded over the applicable vesting periods. The following table summarizes the Company's restricted stock activity for the three months ended March31, 2017 : The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock for the periods presented: As of March31, 2017 , there was approximately $1.6 million of unamortized compensation expense relating to outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized in 2017 through 2020. Oil and Gas Properties The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.Under this method, all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with acquisition of properties and successful as well as unsuccessful exploration and development activities are capitalized. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties and estimated future development costs, excluding unproved properties, are based on the unit-of-production method based on proved reserves.Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties, less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves based on unescalated prices discounted at 10% , plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. Costs in excess of the present value of estimated net revenue from proved reserves discounted at 10% are charged to proved property impairment expense.No gain or loss is recognized upon sale or disposition of oil and gas properties for full cost accounting companies with proceeds accounted for as an adjustment of capitalized cost. An exception to this rule occurs when the adjustment to the full cost pool results in a significant alteration of the relationship between capitalized cost and proved reserves. The Company applies the full cost ceiling test on a quarterly basis on the date of the latest balance sheet presented. At March31, 2016 our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $35.1 million , resulting in the recognition of an impairment for the three months of $35.1 million . At March31, 2017 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves. Impairment calculations did not consider the impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Further write-downs in subsequent quarters are reasonably likely to occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices fall as compared to the commodity prices used in prior quarters. 12 Restoration, Removal and Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require the Company to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum substances at various sites.Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future economic benefit.Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that have no future economic benefit are expensed. Liabilities for expenditures of a non-capital nature are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation is probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are generally undiscounted unless the timing of cash payments for the liability or component is fixed or reliably determinable. The Company accounts for future site restoration obligations based on the guidance of ASC 410 which addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. ASC 410 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset's retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its then present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the related asset. For all periods presented, we have included estimated future costs of abandonment and dismantlement in our full cost amortization base and amortize these costs as a component of our depletion expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the Company's future site restoration obligation transactions for the three months ended March31, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016: 2.Income Taxes The Company records income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. For the three months ended March31, 2017 , there was no income tax benefit due to net operating loss carryforwards and recorded a full valuation allowance against its net deferred taxes. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of March31, 2017 , the Company did not have any accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2012 through 2016 remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject. At December 31, 2016, the Company had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $230.5 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes.The loss carryforward will expire in varying amounts through 2036, if not utilized. Uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards. Therefore, the Company has established a valuation allowance of $103.7 million for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2016. 3. Long-Term Debt The following is a description of the Company's debt as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively: 13 Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of March31, 2017 , $18.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. At March31, 2017 , we had a borrowing base of $115.0 million . The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately or we must pledge additional oil and gas properties or other assets as collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged assets and we may not have the financial resources to make any mandatory principal payments. In addition, a reduction of the borrowing base could also cause us to fail to be in compliance with the financial covenants described below. The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount.Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (a) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, and (b) at all other times, at the greater of (x) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (y) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (z) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At March31, 2017 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.73% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets. The collateral is required to include properties comprising at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. We have also granted our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building and a ranch that we own in West Texas. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized 14 net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the headquarters building and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At March31, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of March31, 2017 , the interest coverage ratio was 14.08 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 0.42 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 4.34 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The credit facility also contains certain additional covenants including requirements that: 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. As of March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facility. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July20, 2023 . As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , $3.8 million and $3.9 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. 15 4. Earnings per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Basic earnings (loss) per share, excluding any dilutive effects of stock options and unvested restricted stock, is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted income (loss) per share is computed in a manner similar to basic; however diluted income (loss) per share reflects the assumed conversion of all potentially dilutive securities. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , 1,642 potential shares related to unvested restricted shares and options were excluded from the calculation of diluted income (loss) per share since their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to losses incurred in the period. There were no shares excluded for the three months ended March 31, 2017. 5. Hedging Program and Derivatives The derivative contracts we utilize are based on index prices that may and often do differ from the actual oil and gas prices realized in our operations.Our derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. There are no netting agreements relating to these derivative contracts and there is no policy to offset. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts as of March31, 2017 : 16 Subsequent to March31, 2017 , we entered into the following derivative contracts: The following table illustrates the impact of derivative contracts on the Company's balance sheet: 6. Financial Instruments Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The Company is further required to assess the creditworthiness of the counter-party to the derivative contract. The results of the assessment of non-performance risk, based on the counter-party's credit risk, could result in an adjustment of the carrying value of the derivative instrument. The following 17 tables sets forth information about the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , and indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): The Company's derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collars as of March31, 2017 , and as of December 31, 2016. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Under a basis differential swap, if the market price is above the fixed price we pay the counter-party, if the market price is below the fixed price, the counter-party pays us. Under a collar, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The NYMEX-based fixed price derivative swaps, basis swaps and collars are indexed to NYMEX futures contracts, which are actively traded, for the underlying commodity and are commonly used in the energy industry. A number of financial institutions and large energy companies act as counter-parties to these type of derivative contracts. As the fair value of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps are based on a number of inputs, including contractual volumes and prices stated in each derivative contract, current and future NYMEX commodity prices, and quantitative models that are based upon readily observable market parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, we have characterized these derivative contracts as Level 2. In order to verify the third party valuation, we enter the various inputs into a model and compare our results to the third party for reasonableness. The fair value of the collar and basis differential swap instruments are based on inputs that are not as observable as the fixed price swaps. In addition to the actively quoted market price, variables such as time value, volatility and other unobservable inputs are used. Accordingly, these instruments have been classified as Level 3. The following is additional information for the Company's recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) for the three months ended March31, 2017 . 18 Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As it relates to the Company, ASC 820-10 applies to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities as may be acquired in a business combination and thereby measured at fair value and the initial recognition of asset retirement obligations for which fair value is used. The asset retirement obligation estimates are derived from historical costs as well as management's expectation of future cost environments. As there is no corroborating market activity to support the assumptions used, the Company has designated these liabilities as Level 3. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's asset retirement obligation is presented in Note 1. Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities and/or liquid nature of these assets and liabilities. The carrying value of our debt approximates fair value as the interest rates are market rates and this debt is considered Level 2. 7. Commitments and Contingencies From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. At March31, 2017 , the Company was not involved in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 8. Subsequent Events Subsequent to March 31, 2017, we entered into the following derivative contracts. 19 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 16, 2017, and the historical unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Except as otherwise noted, all tabular amounts are in thousands, except per unit values. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes from the Critical Accounting Policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. General We are an independent energy company primarily engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas in the United States. Historically, we have grown through the acquisition and subsequent development and exploitation of producing properties, principally through the redevelopment of old fields utilizing new technologies such as modern log analysis and reservoir modeling techniques as well as 3-D seismic surveys and horizontal drilling. As a result of these activities, we believe that we have a number of development opportunities on our properties. In addition, we intend to expand upon our development activities with complementary acreage acquisitions in our core areas of operation. Success in our development and exploration activities is critical in the maintenance and growth of our current production levels and associated reserves. Factors Affecting Our Financial Results Our financial results depend upon many factors which significantly affect our results of operations including the following: commodity prices and the effectiveness of our hedging arrangements; the level of total sales volumes of oil and gas; the availability of and our ability to raise additional capital resources and provide liquidity to meet cash flow needs; the level of and interest rates on borrowings; and the level and success of exploration and development activity. Commodity Prices and Hedging Arrangements . The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and gas production. The prices we receive for our production are dependent upon spot market prices, differentials and the effectiveness of our derivative contracts, which we sometimes refer to as hedging arrangements. Substantially all of our sales of oil and gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. Significant declines in prices for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Oil and gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, worldwide supplies of oil, NGL and gas, the availability of other worldwide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, we are unable to predict what changes may occur in oil, NGL, and gas prices in the future. The market price 20 of oil and condensate, NGL and gas in 2017 will impact the amount of cash generated from operating activities, which will in turn impact our financial position. During the three months ended March31, 2017 , the NYMEX future price for oil averaged $51.78 per Bbl as compared to $33.63 per Bbl in 2016. During the three months ended March31, 2017 , the NYMEX future spot price for gas averaged $3.56 per MMBtu compared to $1.98 per MMBtu in 2016. Prices closed on March31, 2017 at $50.60 per Bbl of oil and $3.19 per MMBtu of gas, compared to closing on March31, 2016 at $38.34 per Bbl of oil and $1.96 per MMBtu of gas. On May 5, 2017, prices closed at $46.22 per Bbl of oil and $3.27 per MMBtu of gas. If commodity prices remain at these levels or decline further, our revenue and cash flow from operations will also likely decline.In addition, lower commodity prices could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically.If oil and gas prices decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations will also likely decrease which could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our drilling activities. Such declines have required, and in future periods could also require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets which would also cause a reduction in net income. Finally, low commodity prices will likely cause a reduction of the borrowing base under our credit facility. The realized prices that we receive for our production differ from NYMEX futures and spot market prices, principally due to: basis differentials which are dependent on actual delivery location; adjustments for BTU content; quality of the hydrocarbons; and gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table sets forth our average differentials for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016: _____________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of derivative activities. At March31, 2017 , our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collars. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Under a basis differential swap, if the market price is above the fixed price we pay the counter-party, if the market price is below the fixed price, the counter-party pays us. Under a collar contract, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). Our derivative contracts equate to approximately 70% of the estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2016) through December31, 2017, 77% in 2018 and 64% in 2019. As of March 31, 2017, we also had NYMEX-based costless collar commodity arrangements on approximately 56% of our estimated net proved developed producing gas reserves (as of December 31, 2016) through December 31, 2017 and a 500 Bopd Midland - Cushing oil price differential swap at ($0.65)/Bbl. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow.We have in the past and will in the future sustain losses on our derivative contracts if market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. For the three months ended March31, 2017 , we realized a gain of $9.4 million , consisting of a gain of $0.6 million on closed contracts and a gain of $8.8 million related to open contracts. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, we realized a gain of $0.7 million consisting of a gain of $5.3 million on closed contracts and a loss of $4.6 million related to open contracts. We have not designated any of these derivative contracts as hedges as prescribed by applicable accounting rules. 21 The following table sets forth our derivative contracts at March31, 2017 : At March31, 2017 , the aggregate fair market value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $0.8 million . Subsequent to March31, 2017 we entered into the following derivative contracts: Production Volumes. Our proved reserves will decline as oil and gas is produced, unless we find, acquire or develop additional properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities.Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve report as of December31, 2016, our average annual estimated decline rate for our net proved developed producing reserves is 40%; 15%; 12%; 11% and 9% in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively, 9% in the following five years, and approximately 9% thereafter. These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially higher.While we have had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, we have not always been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and property sales. Our ability to acquire or find additional reserves in the future will be dependent, in part, upon the amount of available funds for acquisition, exploration and development projects. We had capital expenditures during the three months ended March31, 2017 of $11.0 million related to our exploration and development activities. We have a capital expenditure budget for 2017 of approximately $110.0 million. Approximately $52.5 million of the 2017 budget is allocated to developing ourPermian/Delaware Basinassets including approximately $15.0 million dedicated to expanding our acreage position in theDelaware Basin. The 2017 budget also allocates approximately $42.2 million for drilling and completion of wells in our Williston Basin/Bakken/Three Forks play in North Dakota, with the remaining amount allocated to the Austin Chalk/Eagle Ford area in South Texas as well as lease acquisition and general corporate expenses. The 2017 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. The following table presents historical net production volumes for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016: 22 Availability of Capital . As described more fully under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, our sources of capital are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing of derivative instruments, and if an appropriate opportunity presents itself, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all.In January 2017, we completed a stock offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $65.2 million. The net proceeds from this offering were used to repay borrowings under our credit facility. As of March31, 2017 , our borrowing base was $115.0 million with $97.0 million of availability under our credit facility. Borrowings and Interest . At March31, 2017 , we had a total of $18.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and total indebtedness of $21.8 million (including the current portion). If interest expense increases as a result of higher interest rates or increased borrowings, more cash flow from operations would be used to meet debt service requirements.As a result, we would need to increase our cash flow from operations in order to fund the development of our drilling opportunities which, in turn, will be dependent upon the level of our production volumes and commodity prices. Exploration and Development Activity. We believe that our high quality asset base, high degree of operational control and inventory of drilling projects position us for future growth. At December 31, 2016, we operated properties accounting for approximately 95% of our PV-10, giving us substantial control over the timing and incurrence of operating and capital expenditures. We have identified numerous additional drilling locations on our existing leaseholds, the successful development of which we believe could significantly increase our production and proved reserves. Over the five years ended December 31, 2016, we drilled or participated in 124 gross (46.2 net) wells of which 97% were commercially productive. Our future oil and gas production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties and our proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production may also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility may also decline. In addition, approximately 66% of our estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (33% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2016 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves or develop our existing undeveloped reserves, in which case our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Operational Update Delaware Basin In Ward County, Texas, the Caprito 98-201H and Caprito 98-301HR are drilled, cased and scheduled for a June 2017 completion. The Caprito 98-301HR targeted the Wolfcamp A2 zone and the Caprito 98-201H targeted the Wolfcamp A1 zone. We estimate that we will own a working interest of approximately 88% in the Caprito 98-201H and 98-301H. We recently spud a two well pad in the Caprito 83-304H and Caprito 83-404H. The Caprito 83-304H is targeting the Wolfcamp A2 zone and the Caprito 83-404H is targeting the Wolfcamp B zone. We estimate that we will own a working interest of approximately 81% in the Caprito 83-304H and Caprito 83-404H. 23 Williston Basin At our North Fork prospect, in McKenzie County, North Dakota, the Stenehjem 6H-9H are drilled, cased and scheduled for completion in the coming weeks.We own a working interest of approximately 75% in the Stenehjem 6H-9H. We recently spud a three well pad on the Company's Yellowstone unit. The Yellowstone 2H and 4H will target the Middle Bakken and the Yellowstone 3H will target the Three Forks. We own a working interest of approximately 52% in the Yellowstone 2H-4H. Eagle Ford/Austin Chalk In Atascosa County, Texas, we recently spud the Shut Eye 1H targeting the Eagle Ford formation. As a reminder, we will be testing the use of diverters and other enhanced completion techniques to improve the economic viability of the Eagle Ford formation at Jourdanton. Testing the Eagle Ford will have the added benefit of holding acreage through the entire lower Eagle Ford and maintaining the Austin Chalk rights. We will have a 100% working interest in the Shut Eye 1H. 2017 Outlook Market prices for oil, gas and NGL are inherently volatile. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the future prices for the commodities we produce and sell. Current market fundamentals indicate prices for oil, gas and NGL will be higher than experienced during much of 2016, although remaining much lower than prices prior to mid-2014. Lower prices for oil and gas have had and will likely continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. Cash flow from operations is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is the price of the oil, gas and NGL we produce and sell. Lower prices and/or lower production will cause our cash flow from operations to decrease. Availability under our credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $115.0 million. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual (April 1 and October 1) and other elective borrowing base redeterminations. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. The lenders under our credit facility can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. As a result of the decline in commodity prices for oil, gas and NGL, our borrowing base was reduced in 2016. If prices were to decline again in 2017, we would likely experience a decrease in the borrowing base. In 2016, as a result of the sharp decline in commodity prices, we incurred impairments to our proved properties of $67.6 million. If commodity prices decrease in the future, we would likely incur additional impairments. Results of Operations Selected Operating Data . The following table sets forth operating data from continuing operations for the periods presented. 24 ___________________ (1) Revenue and average sales prices are before the impact of hedging activities. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 to Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Operating Revenue . During the three months ended March31, 2017 , operating revenue increased to $18.8 million from $9.6 million for the same period of 2016. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher prices for all products as well as higher sales volumes. Higher realized commodity prices contributed $8.7 million to operating revenue, of which $6.7 million was attributable to oil. Higher sales volumes contributed $0.5 million to operating revenue for the three months ended March31, 2017 . Oil sales volumes increased to 337 MBbl during the three months ended March31, 2017 from 327 MBbl for the same period of 2016. The increase in oil sales volume was primarily due to new wells brought on line since the first quarter of 2016, offset by natural field declines and property sales. New wells brought on line since the first quarter of 2016 contributed 155 MBbl for the three months ended March31, 2017 . Gas sales volumes increased to 939 MMcf for the three months ended March31, 2017 from 778 MMcf for the same period of 2016. The increase in gas production was due to new wells brought on line since March 31, 2016 which contributed 258 MMcf for the three months ended March31, 2017 , which was partially offset by natural field declines as well as pipeline constraints. NGL sales volumes increased to 120 MBbl for the three months ended March31, 2017 from 82 MBbl for the same period of 2016. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain Region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in North Dakota and West Texas. Lease Operating Expenses ("LOE") . LOE for the three months ended March31, 2017 decreased to $4.1 million from $4.8 million for the same period in 2016. The decrease in LOE was primarily due to lower cost of services and less non-recurring LOE in the first quarter of 2017. Additionally, we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells, as well as sales of non-core properties. LOE per Boe for the three months ended March31, 2017 was $6.71 compared to $8.82 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was due to lower costs incurred and higher sales volumes for the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended March31, 2017 increased to $1.6 million from $1.2 million for the same period of 2016. The increase was due to higher commodity prices and higher sales volumes for the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016. Production taxes for the three months ended March31, 2017 were 9% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 12% for the same period of 2016. General and Administrative ("G&A") Expense. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, for the three months ended March31, 2017 increased to $2.0 million from $1.9 million for the same period of 2016. The increase in G&A expense was primarily due to the reinstatement of officers' salaries effective February 1, 2017. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation, was $3.20 for the quarter ended March31, 2017 compared to $3.56 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was primarily due to higher sales volumes partially offset by slightly higher costs. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense was recognized over their vesting period. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, stock-based compensation expense was $0.8 million for each period. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization ("DD&A") Expense. DD&A expense for the three months ended March31, 2017 decreased to $5.4 million from $5.9 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease was primarily 25 the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of the proved property impairment in 2016. DD&A expense per Boe for the three months ended March31, 2017 was $8.75 compared to $10.94 in 2016. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of March31, 2017 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves. As of March31, 2016 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $35.1 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the three months ended March31, 2017 decreased to $0.5 million compared to $1.2 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease in interest expense was due to significantly lower levels of debt for the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collars as of March31, 2017 , and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of March31, 2016 . The estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $0.8 million as of March31, 2017 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur losses. For the three months ended March31, 2017 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $9.4 million , consisting of a gain on closed contracts of $0.6 million and a gain of $8.8 million relating to open contracts. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $0.7 million , consisting of a gain of $5.3 million on closed contracts and a loss of $4.6 million related to open contracts. Income Tax Expense. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the three months ended March 31, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources General . The oil and gas industry is a highly capital intensive and cyclical business. Our capital requirements are driven principally by our obligations to service debt and to fund the following: the development and exploration of existing properties, including drilling and completion costs of wells; acquisition of interests in additional oil and gas properties; and production and transportation facilities. The amount of capital expenditures we are able to make has a direct impact on our ability to increase cash flow from operations and, thereby, will directly affect our ability to service our debt obligations and to grow the business through the development of existing properties and the acquisition of new properties. Our principal sources of capital are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing of derivative contracts and if appropriate opportunities are available, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable 26 to us, if at all. Based upon current oil, gas and NGL price expectations and our commodity derivatives positions, we anticipate that our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the remainder of 2017 including our planned capital expenditures. On January 3, 2017 we closed on the sale of non-core oil and gas properties in Wyoming. Net proceeds of approximately $10.6 million were used to reduce amounts outstanding under our credit facility. In January 2017, we completed an offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $65.2 million. Proceeds from the offering were used to reduce amounts outstanding under our credit facility. Capital Expenditures . Capital expenditures for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 were $11.0 million and $1.6 million , respectively. The table below sets forth the components of these capital expenditures: During the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, our expenditures were primarily for development of our existing properties as well as the acquisition of leaseholds. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2017 of approximately $110.0 million. Approximately $52.5 million of the 2017 budget is allocated to developing ourPermian/Delaware Basinassets including approximately $15.0 million dedicated to expanding our acreage position in theDelaware Basin. The 2017 budget also allocates approximately $42.2 million for drilling and completion of wells in our Williston Basin/Bakken/Three Forks play in North Dakota, with the remaining amount allocated to the Austin Chalk/Eagle Ford area in South Texas as well as lease acquisition and general corporate expenses. The 2017 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability of sufficient capital resources, our financial results and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Additionally, the level of capital expenditures will vary during future periods depending on economic and industry conditions and commodity prices. Should the prices of oil and gas decline and if our costs of operations increase or if our production volumes decrease, our cash flows will decrease which may result in a reduction of the capital expenditure budget. If we decrease our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to offset oil and gas production decreases caused by natural field declines. Sources of Capital. The net funds provided by and/or used in each of the operating, investing and financing activities are summarized in the following table and discussed in further detail below: Operating activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 provided $11.8 million in cash compared to using $2.5 million in the same period of 2016. Non-cash expense items and net changes in operating assets and liabilities accounted for most of these funds. Investing activities used $0.3 million during the three months ended March31, 2017 , as expenditures of $11.0 million for the development of our existing properties were offset by proceeds from the sale of properties classified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2016 of $10.6 million . Investing activities provided $0.01 million during the three months ended March31, 2016, 27 as proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties of $1.60 million offset expenditures of $1.59 million. Financing activities used $10.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to using $0.6 million for the same period of 2016. Funds used during the three months ended March31, 2017 were primarily payments of borrowings under our credit facility, offset by proceeds from the issuance 28.8 million shares of common stock in January 2017 and borrowings under our credit facility. Funds used during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were primarily payments of our borrowings under our credit facility which were offset by proceeds from borrowings under the credit facility. Future Capital Resources . Our principal sources of capital going forward are cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing derivative instruments and if an opportunity presents itself, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In January 2017, we completed an offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $65.2 million. Proceeds from the offering were used to reduce amounts outstanding under our credit facility. Cash from operating activities is dependent upon commodity prices and production volumes.Depressed commodity prices have reduced, and further decreases in commodity prices from current levels could reduce our cash flows from operations.This could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our exploration and development plans.Unless we otherwise expand and develop reserves, our production volumes may decline as reserves are produced.In the future we may continue to sell producing properties, which could further reduce our production volumes. To offset the loss in production volumes resulting from natural field declines and sales of producing properties, we must conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional producing properties or identify and develop additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We believe our numerous drilling opportunities will allow us to increase our production volumes; however, our drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including availability of capital and the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be found.If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production could also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility could also decline. The risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 66% of our total estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (33% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2016 were classified as undeveloped. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell producing properties. We have also sold debt and equity securities in the past, and may sell additional debt and equity securities in the future when the opportunity presents itself. Contractual Obligations. We are committed to making cash payments in the future on the following types of agreements: Long-term debt, and Operating leases for office facilities. Below is a schedule of the future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place as of March31, 2017 : ___________________________ (1) These amounts represent the balances outstanding under our credit facility and the real estate lien note. These payments assume that we will not borrow additional funds. (2) Interest expense assumes the balances of long-term debt at the end of the period and current effective interest rates. 28 (3) Lease on office space in Dickinson, North Dakota, which expires on October 31, 2018, office space in Lusk, Wyoming, which will expire on December 31, 2017 and office space in Denver, Colorado which will expire on December 31, 2017. We maintain a reserve for costs associated with future site restoration related to the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. At March31, 2017 , our reserve for these obligations totaled $8.7 million for which no contractual commitments exist. For additional information relating to this obligation, see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At March31, 2017 we had no existing off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC regulations, that have, or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contingencies. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. At March31, 2017 , we were not engaged in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on us. Long-Term Indebtedness. Long-term debt consisted of the following: Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of March31, 2017 , $18.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. At March31, 2017 , we had a borrowing base of $115.0 million . The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately or we must pledge additional oil and gas properties or other assets as collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged assets and we may not have the financial resources to make any mandatory principal payments. In addition, a reduction of the borrowing base could also cause us to fail to be in compliance with the financial covenants described below. The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount.Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest at (a) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, and (b) at all other times, at the greater of (x) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (y) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (z a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (i) 0.75% - 1.75% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, (ii) if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 1.75% - 2.75% depending on the 29 utilization of the borrowing base. At March31, 2017 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 2.73% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is June30, 2018 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets. The collateral is required to include properties comprising of least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. We have also granted our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building and a ranch that we own in West Texas. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.00 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with our headquarters building and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At March31, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of March31, 2017 , the interest coverage ratio was 14.08 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 0.42 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 4.34 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The credit facility also contains certain additional covenants including requirements that: 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and 30 if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. As of March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facility. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July 20, 2023. As of March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, $3.8 million and $3.9 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. Hedging Activities Our results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices and we seek to reduce our exposure to price volatility by hedging our production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. We have entered into commodity swaps on approximately 70% of our estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on reserve estimates as of December 31, 2016) through December 31, 2017, 77% for 2018 and 64% for 2019. We have also entered into a NYMEX-based collar on approximately 56% of the gas production of our estimated net proved developed producing reserves (as of December 31, 2016) through December31, 2017 and a 500 Bopd Midland-Cushing oil price differential swap at ($0.65)/Bbl. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe that we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production that has been hedged.We have sustained, and in the future will sustain, losses on our derivative contracts when market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. If the disparity between our contract prices and market prices continues, we will sustain gains or losses on our derivative contracts. While gains and losses resulting from the periodic mark to market of our open contracts do not impact our cash flow from operations, gains and losses from settlements of our closed contracts do impact our cash flow from operations. In addition, as our derivative contracts expire over time, we expect to enter into new derivative contracts at then-current market prices.If the prices at which we hedge future production are significantly lower than our existing derivative contracts, our future cash flow from operations would likely be materially lower. 31Item 1. Financial Statements ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 6 A BRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED) (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 7 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands except per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 8 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited). 9 ABRAXAS PETROLEUM CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (tabular amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Basis of Presentation The accounting policies followed by Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") are set forth in the notes to the Company's audited consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 16, 2017. Such policies have been continued without change. Also, refer to the notes to those financial statements for additional details of the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. All material items included in those notes have not changed except as a result of normal transactions in the interim, or as disclosed within this report. The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have not been audited by our independent registered public accountants, and in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations. Any and all adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Although management believes the unaudited interim related disclosures in these condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. The results of operations and the cash flows for the three and six month periods ended June30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The condensed consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the consolidated audited financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Consolidation Principles The terms "Abraxas," "Abraxas Petroleum," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" refer to Abraxas Petroleum Corporation and all of its subsidiaries, including Raven Drilling, LLC ("Raven Drilling"). Rig Accounting In accordance with SEC Regulation S-X, no income is to be recognized in connection with contractual drilling services performed in connection with properties in which the Company or its affiliates hold an ownership, or other economic interest. Any income not recognized as a result of this limitation is to be credited to the full cost pool and recognized through lower amortization as reserves are produced. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recently Adopted and New Accounting Standards and Disclosures In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business , which changes the definition of a business to assist entities with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is deemed to be a business. Determining whether a transferred asset constitutes a business is important because the accounting for a business combination differs from that of an asset acquisition. The definition of a business also affects the accounting for dispositions. Under the new standard, when substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single asset, or a group of similar assets, the assets acquired would not represent a business and business combination accounting would not be required. The new standard may result in more transactions being accounted for as asset acquisitions rather than business combinations. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and shall be applied prospectively. It is not anticipated that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments provide guidance on the following eight specific cash flow issues: Debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing; contingent 10 consideration payments made after a business combination; proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies; distributions received from equity method investees; beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those fiscal years.Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. It is not anticipated that adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 " Leases, " which supersedes ASC 840 "Leases " and creates a new topic, ASC 842 "Leases." This update requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a lease asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than 12 months on its balance sheet. The update also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures surrounding leases. This update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. This update will be applied using a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the effect of this update on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. I n May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The objective of ASU 2014-09 is greater consistency and comparability across industries by using a five-step model to recognize revenue from customer contracts. ASU 2014-09 also contains some new disclosure requirements under GAAP. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Deferral of the Effective Date . ASU 2015-14 defers the effective date of the new revenue standard by one year, making it effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. In 2016, the FASB issued additional accounting standards updates to clarify the implementation guidance of ASU 2014-09. The Company is currently determining the impacts of the new revenue standard on its contracts. The Company is evaluating its key contracts representative of its revenue and comparing historical accounting policies and practices to the new standard. The Company's revenue contracts are primarily normal sales contracts with index pricing that settle monthly.The Company expects to complete its evaluations of the impact of the accounting and disclosure requirements on its business processes, controls and systems in the second half of 2017, and will continue to evaluate guidance from accounting regulatory agencies as it becomes available. The Company does not expect that the new revenue recognition standard will have a material impact on its accounting for revenue upon adoption; however there will be additional disclosures. Stock-Based Compensation andOption Plans Stock Options The Company currently utilizes a standard option-pricing model (i.e., Black-Scholes) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to employees and directors. The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to stock options for the periods presented: 11 The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for the six months ended June30, 2017 (shares in thousands): As of June30, 2017 , there was approximately $2.2 million of unamortized compensation expense related to outstanding stock options that will be recognized in 2017 through 2020. Restricted Stock Awards Restricted stock awards are awards of common stock that are subject to restrictions on transfer and to a risk of forfeiture if the awardee terminates employment with the Company prior to the lapse of the restrictions. The fair value of such stock was determined using the closing price on the grant date and compensation expense is recorded over the applicable vesting periods. The following table summarizes the Company's restricted stock activity for the six months ended June30, 2017 : The following table summarizes the Company's stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock for the periods presented: As of June30, 2017 , there was approximately $1.3 million of unamortized compensation expense relating to outstanding restricted shares that will be recognized in 2017 through 2020. Oil and Gas Properties The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties.Under this method, all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with acquisition of properties and successful as well as unsuccessful exploration and development activities are capitalized. Depreciation, depletion, and amortization of capitalized oil and gas properties and estimated future development costs, excluding unproved properties, are based on the unit-of-production method based on 12 proved reserves.Net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties, less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves based on unescalated prices discounted at 10% , plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. Costs in excess of the present value of estimated net revenue from proved reserves discounted at 10% are charged to proved property impairment expense.No gain or loss is recognized upon sale or disposition of oil and gas properties for full cost accounting companies with proceeds accounted for as an adjustment of capitalized cost. An exception to this rule occurs when the adjustment to the full cost pool results in a significant alteration of the relationship between capitalized cost and proved reserves. The Company applies the full cost ceiling test on a quarterly basis on the date of the latest balance sheet presented. At June30, 2017 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves. At June30, 2016 our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of an impairment for the three months of $28.7 million . For the six months ended June30, 2016 , proved property impairments of $63.8 million were recognized. Impairment calculations did not consider the impact of our commodity derivative positions as generally accepted accounting principles only allow the inclusion of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Further write-downs in subsequent quarters are reasonably likely to occur if the trailing 12-month commodity prices fall as compared to the commodity prices used in prior quarters. Restoration, Removal and Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require the Company to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum substances at various sites.Environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized depending on their future economic benefit.Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and that have no future economic benefit are expensed. Liabilities for expenditures of a non-capital nature are recorded when environmental assessments and/or remediation is probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are generally undiscounted unless the timing of cash payments for the liability or component is fixed or reliably determinable. The Company accounts for future site restoration obligations based on the guidance of ASC 410 which addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. ASC 410 requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset's retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The liability is accreted to its then present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the related asset. For all periods presented, we have included estimated future costs of abandonment and dismantlement in our full cost amortization base and amortize these costs as a component of our depletion expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the Company's future site restoration obligation transactions for the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016: 2.Income Taxes The Company records income taxes using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the tax rates and laws expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , there was no income tax benefit due to net operating loss carryforwards and the Company recorded a full valuation allowance against its net deferred taxes. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of June30, 2017 , the Company did not have any accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions. The tax years 2012 through 2016 remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject. At December 31, 2016, the Company had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $230.5 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes.The loss carryforward will expire in varying amounts through 2036, if not utilized. Uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards. Therefore, the Company has established a valuation allowance of $137.8 million for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2016. 13 3. Long-Term Debt The following is a description of the Company's debt as of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively: Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of June30, 2017 , $31.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. At June30, 2017 , the Company had a borrowing base of $115.0 million . The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately or we must pledge additional oil and gas properties or other assets as collateral. The Company does not currently have any substantial unpledged assets and we may not have the financial resources to make any mandatory principal payments. In addition, a reduction of the borrowing base could also cause us to fail to be in compliance with the financial covenants described below. The Company's borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. The Company's borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount.Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest (a) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, and (b) at all other times, at the greater of (x) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (y) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (z) a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (b) 1.5% - 2.5% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 2.5% - 3.5% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At June30, 2017 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 3.97% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility was extended to May16, 2021 , as the result of an amendment to the credit facility in April 2017. Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of the Company's subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets. The collateral is required to include properties comprising at least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. The Company has also granted our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building and a ranch that we own in West Texas known as the Coyanosa Draw Ranch. Under the credit facility, the Company is subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.The Company is required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.The Company is also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 3.50 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 14 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with the headquarters building and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At June30, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. As of June30, 2017 , the interest coverage ratio was 15.56 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 0.81 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.65 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The credit facility also contains certain additional covenants including requirements that: 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. As of June30, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facility. Real Estate Lien Note The Company has a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as its corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July20, 2023 . As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 , $3.7 million and $3.9 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. 15 4. Earnings per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: Basic net income (loss) per share, excluding any dilutive effects of stock options and unvested restricted stock, is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed in a manner similar to basic; however diluted net income (loss) per share reflects the assumed conversion of all potentially dilutive securities. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 , potential shares of 1,712 and 1,675 , respectively, related to unvested restricted shares and options were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share since their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to losses incurred in the period. There were no shares excluded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . 5. Hedging Program and Derivatives The derivative contracts we utilize are based on index prices that may and often do differ from the actual oil and gas prices realized in our operations.Our derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. There are no netting agreements relating to these derivative contracts and there is no policy to offset. The following table sets forth the summary position of our derivative contracts as of June30, 2017 : 16 The following table illustrates the impact of derivative contracts on the Company's balance sheet: 6. Financial Instruments Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized into one of three different levels depending on the observability of the inputs employed in the measurement. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. The Company is further required to assess the creditworthiness of the counter-party to the derivative contract. The results of the assessment of non-performance risk, based on the counter-party's credit risk, could result in an adjustment of the carrying value of the derivative instrument. The following tables sets forth information about the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 , and indicate the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value (in thousands): 17 The Company's derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collar contracts as of June30, 2017 , and as of December 31, 2016. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Under a basis differential swap, if the market price is above the fixed price we pay the counter-party, if the market price is below the fixed price, the counter-party pays us. Under a collar contract, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). The NYMEX-based fixed price derivative swaps, basis swaps and collar contracts are indexed to NYMEX futures contracts, which are actively traded, for the underlying commodity and are commonly used in the energy industry. A number of financial institutions and large energy companies act as counter-parties to these type of derivative contracts. As the fair value of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps are based on a number of inputs, including contractual volumes and prices stated in each derivative contract, current and future NYMEX commodity prices, and quantitative models that are based upon readily observable market parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, we have characterized these derivative contracts as Level 2. In order to verify the third party valuation, we enter the various inputs into a model and compare our results to the third party for reasonableness. The fair value of the collar and basis differential swap instruments are based on inputs that are not as observable as the fixed price swaps. In addition to the actively quoted market price, variables such as time value, volatility and other unobservable inputs are used. Accordingly, these instruments have been classified as Level 3. The following is additional information for the Company's recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs) for the six months ended June30, 2017 . Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements The Company follows the provisions of ASC 820-10 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As it relates to the Company, ASC 820-10 applies to certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities as may be acquired in a business combination and thereby measured at fair value and the initial recognition of asset retirement obligations for which fair value is used. The asset retirement obligation estimates are derived from historical costs as well as management's expectation of future cost environments. As there is no corroborating market activity to support the assumptions used, the Company has designated these liabilities as Level 3. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's asset retirement obligation is presented in Note 1. Other Financial Instruments 18 The carrying amounts of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value because of the short-term maturities and/or liquid nature of these assets and liabilities. The carrying value of our debt approximates fair value as the interest rates are market rates and this debt is considered Level 2. 7. Commitments and Contingencies From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its operations in the normal course of business. At June30, 2017 , the Company was not involved in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations. 8. Subsequent Events Acquisitions and divestitures. On July 11, 2017 the Company closed on the acquisition of mineral acreage in Ward County, Texas. The closing purchase price for this acreage was $20.9 million . Proceeds from the Company's credit facility were used to fund this acquisition. The allocation of the purchase price has not yet been completed. On July 14, 2017 the Company entered into an agreement to exchange $3.2 million in cash, 2.0 million shares of Abraxas Petroleum Common Stock, Abraxas' Pecos County Ranch and 50% of Abraxas' owned minerals under the ranch for mineral acres with Bone Spring and Wolfcamp rights and 130 Boepd of production in Ward, Reeves, Winkler and Pecos Counties, Texas. This transaction is expected to close in early August 2017. On July 14, 2017, the Company closed on the divestiture of a portion of its Powder River Basin assets for approximately $4.6 million . Proceeds from this sale were used to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's credit facility. 19 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 16, 2017, and the historical unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Except as otherwise noted, all tabular amounts are in thousands, except per unit values. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no changes from the Critical Accounting Policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. General We are an independent energy company primarily engaged in the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas in the United States. Historically, we have grown through the acquisition and subsequent development and exploitation of producing properties, principally through the redevelopment of old fields utilizing new technologies such as modern log analysis and reservoir modeling techniques as well as 3-D seismic surveys and horizontal drilling. As a result of these activities, we believe that we have a number of development opportunities on our properties. In addition, we intend to expand upon our development activities with complementary acreage acquisitions in our core areas of operation. Success in our development and exploration activities is critical in the maintenance and growth of our current production levels and associated reserves. Factors Affecting Our Financial Results Our financial results depend upon many factors which significantly affect our results of operations including the following: commodity prices and the effectiveness of our hedging arrangements; the level of total sales volumes of oil and gas; the availability of and our ability to raise additional capital resources and provide liquidity to meet cash flow needs; the level of and interest rates on borrowings; and the level and success of exploration and development activity. Commodity Prices and Hedging Arrangements . The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and gas production. The prices we receive for our production are dependent upon spot market prices, differentials and the effectiveness of our derivative contracts, which we sometimes refer to as hedging arrangements. Substantially all of our sales of oil and gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. Significant declines in prices for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Oil and gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, worldwide supplies of oil, NGL and gas, the availability of other worldwide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, we are unable to predict what changes may occur in oil, NGL, and gas prices in the future. The market price of oil and condensate, NGL and gas in 2017 will impact the amount of cash generated from operating activities, which will in turn impact our financial position. 20 During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the NYMEX future price for oil averaged $49.95 per Bbl as compared to $39.78 per Bbl in 2016. During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the NYMEX future spot price for gas averaged $3.35 per MMBtu compared to $2.12 per MMBtu in 2016. Prices closed on June30, 2017 at $46.04 per Bbl of oil and $3.04 per MMBtu of gas, compared to closing on June30, 2016 at $48.33 per Bbl of oil and $2.93 per MMBtu of gas. On August 7, 2017, prices closed at $49.39 per Bbl of oil and $2.80 per MMBtu of gas. If commodity prices remain at these levels or decline further, our revenue and cash flow from operations will also likely decline.In addition, lower commodity prices could also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically.If oil and gas prices decline, our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations will also likely decrease which could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our drilling activities. Such declines have required, and in future periods could also require us to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets which would also cause a reduction in net income. Finally, low commodity prices will likely cause a reduction of the borrowing base under our credit facility. The realized prices that we receive for our production differ from NYMEX futures and spot market prices, principally due to: basis differentials which are dependent on actual delivery location; adjustments for BTU content; quality of the hydrocarbons; and gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table sets forth our average differentials for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016: _____________________________________ (1) Excludes the impact of derivative activities. At June30, 2017 , our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collar contracts. Under fixed price swaps, we receive a fixed price for our production and pay a variable market price to the contract counter-party. Under a basis differential swap, if the market price is above the fixed price we pay the counter-party, if the market price is below the fixed price, the counter-party pays us. Under a collar contract, we pay the counterparty if the market price is above the ceiling price (short call) and the counterparty pays us if the market price is below the floor price (long put). Our derivative contracts equate to approximately 72% of the estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2016) from July 1, 2017 through December31, 2017, 84% in 2018 and 64% in 2019. As of June30, 2017 , we also had NYMEX-based costless collar commodity arrangements on approximately 56% of our estimated net proved developed producing gas reserves (as of December 31, 2016) from July 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 and a 500 Boepd Midland - Cushing oil price differential swap at ($0.65)/Bbl. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow.We have in the past and will in the future sustain losses on our derivative contracts if market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. For the six months ended June30, 2017 , we realized a gain of $15.8 million , consisting of a gain of $2.0 million on closed contracts and a gain of $13.8 million related to open contracts. For the six months ended June30, 2016 we realized a loss of $12.8 million consisting of a gain of $4.2 million on closed contracts and a loss of $17.0 million related to open contracts. We have not designated any of these derivative contracts as hedges as prescribed by applicable accounting rules. The following table sets forth our derivative contracts at June30, 2017 : Oil - WTI Contract Periods Daily Volume (Bbl) Swap Price (per Bbl) 21 At June30, 2017 , the aggregate fair market value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $6.2 million . Production Volumes. Our proved reserves will decline as oil and gas is produced, unless we find, acquire or develop additional properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities.Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve report as of December31, 2016, our average annual estimated decline rate for our net proved developed producing reserves is 40%; 15%; 12%; 11% and 9% in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively, 9% in the following five years, and approximately 9% thereafter. These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially different.While we have had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, we have not always been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and property sales. Our ability to acquire or find additional reserves in the future will be dependent, in part, upon the amount of available funds for acquisition, exploration and development projects. We had capital expenditures during the six months ended June30, 2017 of $40.5 million related to our exploration and development activities. We have a capital expenditure budget for 2017 of approximately $120.0 million consisting of $110.0 million in cash with the remainder being equity and land swap value. Approximately $71.3 million of the 2017 budget is allocated to developing ourPermian/Delaware Basinassets and expanding our acreage position in theDelaware Basin. The 2017 budget also allocates approximately $42.2 million for drilling and completion of wells in our Williston Basin/Bakken/Three Forks play in North Dakota, with the remaining amount allocated to the Austin Chalk/Eagle Ford area in South Texas as well as lease acquisition and general corporate expenses. The 2017 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, the availability of sufficient capital resources, the results of our exploitation efforts, and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. The following table presents historical net production volumes for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016: Availability of Capital . As described more fully under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below, our sources of capital are cash flow from operating activities, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing of derivative instruments, and if an appropriate opportunity presents itself, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all.In January 2017, we completed a stock offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $65.2 million. The net proceeds from this offering were used to repay borrowings under our credit facility. As of June30, 2017 , our borrowing base was 22 $115.0 million with $84.0 million of availability under our credit facility. As of July 31, 2017 we had $52.0 million outstanding on our credit facility, primarily as a result of acquisition activity since June 30, 2017. Borrowings and Interest . At June30, 2017 , we had a total of $31.0 million outstanding under our credit facility and total indebtedness of $34.7 million (including the current portion). If interest expense increases as a result of higher interest rates or increased borrowings, more cash flow from operations would be used to meet debt service requirements.As a result, we would need to increase our cash flow from operations in order to fund the development of our drilling opportunities which, in turn, will be dependent upon the level of our production volumes and commodity prices. Exploration and Development Activity. We believe that our high quality asset base, high degree of operational control and inventory of drilling projects position us for future growth. At December 31, 2016, we operated properties accounting for approximately 95% of our PV-10, giving us substantial control over the timing and incurrence of operating and capital expenditures. We have identified numerous additional drilling locations on our existing leaseholds, the successful development of which we believe could significantly increase our production and proved reserves. Over the five years ended December 31, 2016, we drilled or participated in 124 gross (46.2 net) wells of which 97% were commercially productive. Our future oil and gas production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our oil and gas properties and our proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production may also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility may also decline. In addition, approximately 66% of our estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (33% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2016 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves or develop our existing undeveloped reserves, in which case our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Operational Update Delaware Basin In Ward County, Texas, the Caprito 98-201H and Caprito 98-301HR were successfully fracture stimulated and are currently flowing back at very encouraging rates. Abraxas is flowing both wells back using a more conservative choke management protocol after observing the practices of offsetting operators. The objective of this protocol is to enhance the performance and ultimate recovery from the well. To date the performance of these wells is exceeding that of the Company's first Wolfcamp A2 completion in the Caprito 99-302H. Furthermore, the performance of the Company's first Wolfcamp A1 test in the Caprito 98-201H is exceeding that of the two Wolfcamp A2 completions in the Caprito 98-301HR and Caprito 99-302H. Abraxas will furnish 30-day IP rates when they are available. Following the acquisition of additional working interests at Caprito (expected to close in August 2017), Abraxas estimates it will own a working interest of approximately 98% in the Caprito 98-201H and 98-301HR. Abraxas successfully drilled and cased the Caprito 83-304H and Caprito 83-404H to total depths of 16,387 and 16,590 feet, respectively. The Caprito 83-304H is targeting the Wolfcamp A2 zone and the Caprito 83-404H is targeting the Wolfcamp B zone. Completion of these wells is scheduled for September 2017. Following the acquisition of additional working interests at Caprito (expected to close in August 2017), Abraxas estimates it will own a working interest of approximately 100% in the Caprito 83-304H and Caprito 83-404H. Abraxas recently spud the Caprito 82-101H and Caprito 82-202H. The Caprito 82-101H is targeting the Third Bone Spring zone and the Caprito 82-202H is targeting the Wolfcamp A1 zone. Abraxas estimates it owns a working interest of approximately 62% and 100% in the Caprito 82-101H and Caprito 82-202H, respectively. Williston Basin At Abraxas' North Fork prospect, in McKenzie County, North Dakota, the Stenehjem 6H and 8H wells targeting the Three Forks averaged 1,143 boepd (861 barrels of oil per day, 1,692 mcf of natural gas per day) (1) over their first 30 days of production. The Stenehjem 7H and 9H wells targeting the Middle Bakken averaged 1,148 boepd (854 barrels of oil per day, 1,761 mcf of natural gas per day) (1) over their first 30 days of production. Abraxas owns a working interest of approximately 75% in the Stenehjem 6H-9H. 23 The Yellowstone 2H-4H wells, in which Abraxas owns a 52% working interest, are now scheduled for an October 2017 completion. Eagle Ford/Austin Chalk In Atascosa County, Texas, the Shut Eye 1H, in which Abraxas owns a 100% working interest, is now scheduled for a September 2017 completion. Subsequent Events Acquisitions and divestitures. On July 11, 2017 the Company closed on the acquisition of mineral acreage in Ward County, Texas. The closing purchase price for this acreage was $20.9 million . Proceeds from the Company's credit facility were used to fund this acquisition. The allocation of the purchase price has not yet been completed. On July 14, 2017 the Company entered into an agreement to exchange $3.2 million in cash, 2.0 million shares of Abraxas Petroleum Common Stock, Abraxas' Pecos County Ranch and 50% of Abraxas' owned minerals under the ranch for mineral acres with Bone Spring and Wolfcamp rights and 130 Boepd of production in Ward, Reeves, Winkler and Pecos Counties, Texas. This transaction is expected to close in early August 2017. On July 14, 2017, the Company closed on the divestiture of a portion of its Powder River Basin assets for approximately $4.6 million . Proceeds from this sale were used to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's credit facility. Outlook Market prices for oil, gas and NGL are inherently volatile. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the future prices for the commodities we produce and sell. Current market fundamentals indicate prices for oil, gas and NGL will be higher than experienced during much of 2016, although remaining much lower than prices prior to mid-2014. Lower prices for oil and gas have had and will likely continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. Cash flow from operations is sensitive to many variables, the most volatile of which is the price of the oil, gas and NGL we produce and sell. Lower prices and/or lower production will cause our cash flow from operations to decrease. Availability under our credit facility is currently subject to a borrowing base of $115.0 million. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semiannual (April 1 and October 1) and other elective borrowing base redeterminations. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. The lenders under our credit facility can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our credit facility. As a result of the decline in commodity prices for oil, gas and NGL, our borrowing base was reduced in 2016. If prices were to decline again in 2017, we would likely experience a decrease in the borrowing base. In 2016, as a result of the sharp decline in commodity prices, we incurred impairments to our proved properties of $67.6 million. If commodity prices decrease in the future, we would likely incur additional impairments. 24 Results of Operations Selected Operating Data . The following table sets forth operating data from continuing operations for the periods presented. ___________________ (1) Revenue and average sales prices are before the impact of hedging activities. Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 to Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 Operating Revenue . During the three months ended June30, 2017 , operating revenue increased to $13.2 million from $11.0 million for the same period of 2016. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher prices for all products as well as higher sales volumes. Higher realized commodity prices contributed $1.9 million to operating revenue, of which $1.1 million was attributable to oil. Higher sales volumes contributed $0.3 million to operating revenue for the three months ended June30, 2017 . Oil sales volumes increased to 261 MBbl during the three months ended June30, 2017 from 259 MBbl for the same period of 2016. The increase in oil sales volume was primarily due to new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016, offset by natural field declines and property sales. New wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016 contributed 92 MBbl for the three months ended June30, 2017 . Gas sales volumes increased to 711 MMcf for the three months ended June30, 2017 from 688 MMcf for the same period of 2016. The increase in gas production was due to new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016 which contributed 147 MMcf for the three months ended June30, 2017 , which was partially offset by natural field declines as well as pipeline constraints. NGL sales volumes increased to 91 MBbl for the three months ended June30, 2017 from 71 MBbl for the same period of 2016. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in South Texas and West Texas. Lease Operating Expenses ("LOE") . LOE for the three months ended June30, 2017 decreased to $3.4 million from $4.3 million for the same period in 2016. The decrease in LOE was primarily due to lower cost of services and less non-recurring LOE in the second quarter of 2017. Additionally, we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells, as well as sales of non-core properties. LOE per Boe for the three months ended June30, 2017 was $7.27 compared to $9.58 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was due to lower costs incurred and higher sales volumes for the three months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016. 25 Production and Ad Valorem Taxes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended June30, 2017 were constant at $1.2 million for each period. Production and ad valorem taxes for the three months ended June30, 2017 were 9% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 11% for the same period of 2016. Lower ad valorem taxes contributed to the reduction in the percentage of sales revenue. General and Administrative ("G&A") Expense. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, for the three months ended June30, 2017 was constant at $1.9 million for each period. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation, was $4.08 for the quarter ended June30, 2017 compared to $4.31 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was primarily due to higher sales volumes. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense was recognized over their vesting period. For the three months ended June30, 2017 stock-based compensation expense was $1.0 million compared to $0.8 million for the same period of 2016. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization ("DD&A") Expense. DD&A expense for the three months ended June30, 2017 decreased to $4.4 million from $5.7 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of the proved property impairment in 2016. DD&A expense per Boe for the three months ended June30, 2017 was $9.38 compared to $12.76 in 2016. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of June30, 2017 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the cost ceiling of our estimated proved reserves. As of June 30, 2016, the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount for the three months ended June 30, 2016. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the three months ended June30, 2017 decreased to $0.5 million compared to $1.2 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease in interest expense in 2017 was due to significantly lower levels of debt for the three months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016. Loss (Gain) on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collar contracts as of June30, 2017 , and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of June30, 2016 . The estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $6.2 million as of June30, 2017 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur losses. For the three months ended June30, 2017 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $6.5 million , consisting of a gain on closed contracts of $1.4 million and a gain of $5.1 million relating to open contracts. For the three months ended June30, 2016 , we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $13.4 million , consisting of a loss of $1.0 million on closed contracts and a loss of $12.4 million related to open contracts. Income Tax Expense. For the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the three months ended June 30, 2016. 26 Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 to Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 Operating Revenue . During the six months ended June30, 2017 , operating revenue increased to $32.0 million from $20.6 million for the same period of 2016. The increase in revenue was primarily due to higher prices for all products as well as higher sales volumes for all products. Higher realized commodity prices contributed $10.6 million to revenue, of which $7.7 million was attributable to oil. Higher sales volumes contributed $0.8 million to revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Oil sales volumes increased to 599 MBbl during the six months ended June30, 2017 from 586 MBbl for the same period of 2016. The increase in oil sales volume was primarily due to new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016, offset by natural field declines and property sales. New wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016 contributed 248 MBbl for the six months ended June30, 2017 . Gas sales volumes increased to 1,650 MMcf for the six months ended June30, 2017 from 1,466 MMcf for the same period of 2016. The increase in gas sales volume was primarily due to new wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016, offset by natural field declines and property sales. New wells brought on line since the second quarter of 2016 contributed 405 MBbl for the six months ended June30, 2017 . NGL sales volumes increased to 211 MBbl for the six months ended June30, 2017 from 153 MBbl for the same period of 2016 which was partially offset by natural field declines as well as pipeline constraints. The increase in NGL sales was primarily due to more gas production in the Rocky Mountain region which has a higher NGL content. NGL sales were negatively impacted by plant and pipeline issues in South Texas and West Texas. LOE . LOE for the six months ended June30, 2017 decreased to $7.5 million from $9.0 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease in LOE was primarily due to lower cost of services and less non-recurring LOE in the first six months of 2017. Additionally, we have focused on lowering LOE and shutting in marginal wells. LOE per Boe for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $6.95 compared to $9.17 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was due to lower service costs and higher production volumes for the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016. Production and Ad Valorem Taxes . Production and ad valorem taxes for the six months ended June30, 2017 increased to $2.8 million from $2.4 million for the same period of 2016. The increase was primarily the result of higher commodity prices and sales volumes. Production and ad valorem taxes for the six month ended June30, 2017 were 9% of total oil, gas and NGL sales compared to 12% for the same period of 2016. Lower ad valorem taxes contributed to the reduction in the percentage of sales revenue. G&A Expenses. G&A expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, increased to $3.9 million for the first six months of 2017 from $3.8 million for the same period of 2016. The increase in G&A expense was primarily due to the reinstatement of officers' salaries effective February 1, 2017. G&A expense per Boe, excluding stock-based compensation expense, was $3.58 for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to $3.90 for the same period of 2016. The decrease per Boe was primarily due to slightly higher costs offset by increased volumes in the first six months of 2017 compared to the same period in 2016. Stock-Based Compensation. Options granted to employees and directors are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over the options vesting period. In addition to options, restricted shares of the Company's common stock have been granted and are valued at the date of grant and expense is recognized over their vesting period. For the six months ended June30, 2017 , stock based compensation expense was $1.7 million as compared to $1.6 million for the same period of 2016. DD&A Expenses . DD&A expense for the six months ended June30, 2017 decreased to $9.8 million from $11.6 million for same period of 2016. The decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in the full cost pool as a result of impairments in 2016. Our DD&A expense per Boe for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $9.02 compared to $11.76 for the same period in 2016. Ceiling Limitation Write-Down . We record the carrying value of our oil and gas properties using the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties. Under this method, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and gas properties. Under the full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties less related deferred taxes, are limited by country, to the lower of the unamortized cost or the cost ceiling, defined as the sum of the present value of estimated unescalated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%, plus the cost of properties not being amortized, if any, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized, if any, less related income taxes. If the net capitalized cost of oil and gas properties exceeds the ceiling limit, we are subject to a ceiling limitation write-down to the extent of such excess. A ceiling limitation write-down is a charge to earnings which does not impact cash flow from operating activities. However, such write-downs do impact the amount of our stockholders' equity and reported earnings. As of June30, 2017 , our net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties did not exceed the present value of our estimated proved reserves. As of June 30, 2016, the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties 27 exceeded the present value of our estimated proved reserves by approximately $28.7 million , resulting in the recognition of a proved property impairment of the same amount. Total impairment for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $63.8 million , which included $35.1million recognized in the first quarter of 2016. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas assets increases when oil and gas prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have substantial downward revisions in our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience additional write-downs in the future. If commodity prices decline or if any of our proved reserves are revised downward, a further write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties may be required. Interest Expense. Interest expense for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $1.0 million as compared to $2.4 million for the same period of 2016. The decrease in 2017 was due to lower levels of debt during the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016. (Gain) Loss on Derivative Contracts . Derivative gains or losses are determined by actual derivative settlements during the period and on the periodic mark to market valuation of derivative contracts in place. We have elected not to apply hedge accounting to our derivative contracts; therefore, fluctuations in the market value of the derivative contracts are recognized in earnings during the current period. Our derivative contracts consisted of NYMEX-based fixed price swaps, basis differential swaps and collar contracts as of June30, 2017 , and NYMEX-based fixed price swaps and three-way collar contracts as of June30,2016. The net estimated value of our commodity derivative contracts was a net asset of approximately $6.2 million as of June30, 2017 . When our derivative contract prices are higher than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized gains and conversely, when our derivative contract prices are lower than prevailing market prices, we incur realized and unrealized losses. For the six months ended June30, 2017 , we recognized a gain on our commodity derivative contracts of $15.8 million , consisting of a gain of $2.0 million relating to our closed contracts and a gain of $13.8 million related to our open contracts. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, we recognized a loss on our commodity derivative contracts of $12.8 million , consisting of a gain of $4.2 million on our closed contracts and a loss of $17.0 million related to our open contracts. Income Tax Expense. For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 there was no income tax expense recognized as a result of NOL carryforwards and a net loss in the six months ended June30, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources General . The oil and gas industry is a highly capital intensive and cyclical business. Our capital requirements are driven principally by our obligations to service debt and to fund the following: the development and exploration of existing properties, including drilling and completion costs of wells; acquisition of interests in additional oil and gas properties; and production and transportation facilities. The amount of capital expenditures we are able to make has a direct impact on our ability to increase cash flow from operations and, thereby, will directly affect our ability to service our debt obligations and to grow the business through the development of existing properties and the acquisition of new properties. Our principal sources of capital are cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing of derivative contracts and if appropriate opportunities are available, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any such transactions on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Based upon current oil, gas and NGL price expectations and our commodity derivatives positions, we anticipate that our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility will provide us sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the remainder of 2017 including our planned capital expenditures. Capital Expenditures . Capital expenditures for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $40.5 million and $5.7 million , respectively. The table below sets forth the components of these capital expenditures: Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 2016 (In thousands) 28 During the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, our expenditures were primarily for development of our existing properties as well as the acquisition of leaseholds. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2017 of approximately $120.0 million, consisting of $110.0 million in cash with the remainder being equity and land swap value. Approximately $71.3 million of the 2017 budget is allocated to developing ourPermian/Delaware Basinassets and expanding our acreage position in theDelaware Basin. The 2017 budget also allocates approximately $42.2 million for drilling and completion of wells in our Williston Basin/Bakken/Three Forks play in North Dakota, with the remaining amount allocated to the Austin Chalk/Eagle Ford area in South Texas as well as lease acquisition and general corporate expenses. The 2017 capital expenditure budget is subject to change depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and costs of drilling and service equipment and crews, economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas, the availability of sufficient capital resources, our financial results and our ability to obtain permits for drilling locations. Additionally, the level of capital expenditures will vary during future periods depending on economic and industry conditions and commodity prices. Should the prices of oil and gas decline and if our costs of operations increase or if our production volumes decrease, our cash flows will decrease which may result in a reduction of the capital expenditure budget. If we decrease our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to offset oil and gas production decreases caused by natural field declines. Sources of Capital. The net funds provided by and/or used in each of the operating, investing and financing activities are summarized in the following table and discussed in further detail below: Operating activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 provided $28.4 million in cash compared to providing $12.5 million in the same period of 2016. Non-cash expense items and net changes in operating assets and liabilities accounted for most of these funds. Investing activities used $29.6 million during the six months ended June30, 2017 , as expenditures of $40.5 million for the development of our existing properties were offset by proceeds from the sale of properties classified as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2016 of $10.7 million . Investing activities used $1.2 million during the six months ended June30, 2016, as proceeds from sales of oil and gas properties of $4.5 million offset expenditures of $5.7 million. Financing activities provided $1.9 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to using $13.1 million for the same period of 2016. Funds provided during the six months ended June30, 2017 were primarily proceeds from the issuance of 28.8 million shares of common stock in January 2017 and borrowings under our credit facility, offset by payments of borrowings under our credit facility. Funds used during the six months ended June 30, 2016 were primarily payments of our borrowings under our credit facility which were offset by proceeds from borrowings under the credit facility and equity offering in May 2016. Future Capital Resources . Our principal sources of capital going forward are cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of properties, monetizing derivative instruments and if an opportunity presents itself, the sale of debt or equity securities, although we may not be able to complete any financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In January 2017, we completed an offering of 28.8 million shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $65.2 million. Proceeds from the offering were used to reduce amounts outstanding under our credit facility. Cash from operating activities is dependent upon commodity prices and production volumes.Depressed commodity prices have reduced, and further decreases in commodity prices from current levels could reduce our cash flows from operations.This could cause us to alter our business plans, including reducing our exploration and development plans.Unless we otherwise expand and develop reserves, our production volumes may decline as reserves are produced.In the future, we 29 may continue to sell producing properties, which could further reduce our production volumes. To offset the loss in production volumes resulting from natural field declines and sales of producing properties, we must conduct successful exploration and development activities, acquire additional producing properties or identify and develop additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. We believe our numerous drilling opportunities will allow us to increase our production volumes; however, our drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including availability of capital and the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be found.If our proved reserves decline in the future, our production could also decline and, consequently, our cash flow from operations and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facility could also decline. The risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 66% of our total estimated proved reserves on a Boe basis (33% on a PV-10 basis) at December 31, 2016 were classified as undeveloped. We have in the past, and may in the future, sell producing properties. We have also sold debt and equity securities in the past, and may sell additional debt and equity securities in the future when the opportunity presents itself. Contractual Obligations. We are committed to making cash payments in the future on the following types of agreements: Long-term debt, and Operating leases for office facilities. Below is a schedule of the future payments that we are obligated to make based on agreements in place as of June30, 2017 : ___________________________ (1) These amounts represent the balances outstanding under our credit facility and the real estate lien note. These payments assume that we will not borrow additional funds. (2) Interest expense assumes the balances of long-term debt at the end of the period and current effective interest rates. (3) Lease on office space in Dickinson, North Dakota, which expires on October 31, 2018, office space in Lusk, Wyoming, which will expire on December 31, 2017 and office space in Denver, Colorado which will expire on December 31, 2017. We maintain a reserve for costs associated with future site restoration related to the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. At June30, 2017 , our reserve for these obligations totaled $8.8 million for which no contractual commitments exist. For additional information relating to this obligation, see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At June30, 2017 we had no existing off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC regulations, that have, or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Contingencies. From time to time, we are involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. At June30, 2017 , we were not engaged in any legal proceedings that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on us. Long-Term Indebtedness. Long-term debt consisted of the following: June30, 2017 December31, 2016 (In thousands) 30 Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured credit facility with Soci t G n rale, as administrative agent and issuing lender, and certain other lenders, which we refer to as the credit facility.As of June30, 2017 , $31.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility. The credit facility has a maximum commitment of $300.0 million and availability is subject to a borrowing base. At June30, 2017 , we had a borrowing base of $115.0 million . The borrowing base is determined semi-annually by the lenders based upon our reserve reports, one of which must be prepared by our independent petroleum engineers and one of which may be prepared internally. The amount of the borrowing base is calculated by the lenders based upon their valuation of our proved reserves securing the facility utilizing these reserve reports and their own internal decisions. In addition, the lenders, in their sole discretion, are able to make one additional borrowing base redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations and we are able to request one redetermination during any six-month period between scheduled redeterminations. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately or we must pledge additional oil and gas properties or other assets as collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged assets and we may not have the financial resources to make any mandatory principal payments. In addition, a reduction of the borrowing base could also cause us to fail to be in compliance with the financial covenants described below. The borrowing base will be automatically reduced in connection with any sales of producing properties with a market value of 5% or more of our then-current borrowing base and in connection with any hedge termination which could reduce the collateral value by 5% or more. Our borrowing base can never exceed the $300.0 million maximum commitment amount.Outstanding amounts under the credit facility bear interest at (a) at any time an event of default exists, at 3% per annum plus the amounts set forth below, and (b) at all other times, at the greater of (x) the reference rate announced from time to time by Soci t G n rale, (y) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5% , and (z a rate determined by Soci t G n rale as the daily one-month LIBOR plus, in each case, (i) 1.5% - 2.5% , depending on the utilization of the borrowing base, or, (ii) if we elect, LIBOR plus, in each case, 2.5% - 3.5% depending on the utilization of the borrowing base. At June30, 2017 , the interest rate on the credit facility was approximately 3.97% assuming LIBOR borrowings. Subject to earlier termination rights and events of default, the stated maturity date of the credit facility is May16, 2021 . Interest is payable quarterly on reference rate advances and not less than quarterly on LIBOR advances. We are permitted to terminate the credit facility and are able, from time to time, to permanently reduce the lenders' aggregate commitment under the credit facility in compliance with certain notice and dollar increment requirements. Each of our subsidiaries has guaranteed our obligations under the credit facility on a senior secured basis. Obligations under the credit facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest, subject to certain permitted encumbrances, in all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' material property and assets. The collateral is required to include properties comprising of least 90% of the PV-10 of our proven reserves. We have also granted our lenders a security interest in our headquarters building and a ranch that we own in West Texas known as the Coyanosa Draw Ranch. Under the credit facility, we are subject to customary covenants, including certain financial covenants and reporting requirements.We are required to maintain a current ratio, as of the last day of each quarter of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00.We are also required as of the last day of each quarter to maintain a total debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 3.50 to 1.00. The current ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities.For the purposes of this calculation, current assets include the portion of the borrowing base which is undrawn but excludes any cash deposited with a counter-party to a hedging arrangement and any assets representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 and current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt and any liabilities representing a valuation account arising from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20.The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of consolidated EBITDAX to consolidated interest expense for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date. For the purposes of this calculation, EBITDAX is defined as the sum of consolidated net income plus interest expense, oil and gas exploration expenses, income, franchise or margin taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and other non-cash charges including non-cash charges resulting from 31 the application of ASC 718, ASC 815 and ASC 410-20 plus all realized net cash proceeds arising from the settlement or monetization of any hedge contracts plus expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any acquisition permitted under the credit facility plus expenses incurred in connection with any offering of senior unsecured notes, subordinated debt or equity plus up to $1.0 million of extraordinary expenses in any 12-month period plus extraordinary losses minus all non-cash items of income which were included in determining consolidated net loss, including all non-cash items resulting from the application of ASC 815 and ASC 410-20. Interest expense includes total interest, letter of credit fees and other fees and expenses incurred in connection with any debt. The total debt to EBITDAX ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDAX for the four fiscal quarters ended on the calculation date.For the purposes of this calculation, total debt is the outstanding principal amount of debt, excluding debt associated with our headquarters building and obligations with respect to surety bonds and derivative contracts . At June30, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. As of June30, 2017 , the interest coverage ratio was 15.56 to 1.00, the total debt to EBITDAX ratio was 0.81 to 1.00, and our current ratio was 2.65 to 1.00. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; transfer or sell assets; create liens on assets; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on an "arm's length" basis; make any change in the principal nature of our business; and permit a change of control. The credit facility also contains certain additional covenants including requirements that: 100% of the net proceeds from any terminations of derivative contracts must be used to repay amounts outstanding under the credit facility; and if the sum of our cash on hand plus liquid investments exceeds $10.0 million , then the amount in excess of $10.0 million must be used to pay amounts outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violations of covenants, cross default and cross acceleration to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and material judgments and liabilities. As of June30, 2017 , we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facility. Real Estate Lien Note We have a real estate lien note secured by a first lien deed of trust on the property and improvements which serves as our corporate headquarters. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.25% and is payable in monthly installments of $34,354 . Beginning August 20, 2018, the interest rate will adjust to the bank's then current prime rate plus 1.00% with a maximum rate of 7.25% . The maturity date of the note is July 20, 2023. As of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, $3.7 million and $3.9 million , respectively, were outstanding on the note. Hedging Activities Our results of operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices and we seek to reduce our exposure to price volatility by hedging our production through swaps, options and other commodity derivative instruments. We have entered into commodity swaps on approximately 72% of our estimated oil production from our net proved developed producing reserves (based on reserve estimates as of December 31, 2016) from July 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, 84% for 2018 and 64% for 2019. We have also entered into a NYMEX-based collar on approximately 56% of the gas production of our estimated net proved developed producing reserves (as of December 31, 2016) from July 1, 2017 through December31, 2017 and a 500 Boepd Midland-Cushing oil price differential swap at ($0.65)/Bbl. By removing a portion of price volatility on our future oil and gas production, we believe that we will mitigate, but not eliminate, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations.However, when prevailing market prices are higher than our contract prices, we will not realize increased cash flow on the portion of the production 32 that has been hedged.We have sustained, and in the future will sustain, losses on our derivative contracts when market prices are higher than our contract prices. Conversely, when prevailing market prices are lower than our contract prices, we will sustain gains on our commodity derivative contracts. If the disparity between our contract prices and market prices continues, we will sustain gains or losses on our derivative contracts. While gains and losses resulting from the periodic mark to market of our open contracts do not impact our cash flow from operations, gains and losses from settlements of our closed contracts do impact our cash flow from operations. In addition, as our derivative contracts expire over time, we expect to enter into new derivative contracts at then-current market prices.If the prices at which we hedge future production are significantly lower than our existing derivative contracts, our future cash flow from operations would likely be materially lower. 33