ITEM 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in thousands, except share and per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1.DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") is a pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of therapeutics targeting chronic disorders of the central nervous systems ("CNS"). The Company seeks to achieve this by enhancing the pharmacokinetic profiles of approved drugs to create novel therapeutics for use alone and in fixed-dose combination products. The Company is developing its lead wholly-owned product candidate, ADS-5102 (amantadine hydrochloride) for a complication associated with the treatment of Parkinson's disease known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID"). ADS-5102 is an extended-release version of amantadine that is intended for once daily administration at bedtime. The Company completed a Phase 2/3 clinical study in LID in 2013, and initiated two confirmatory Phase 3 trials and a separate open-label safety study in 2014. The Company completed enrollment in the larger of these trials, EASE LID, in July 2015, and the smaller, EASE LID 3, in December 2015. The Company announced top-line results of EASE LID in December 2015 and EASE LID 3 in April 2016. The Company is also exploring the utility of ADS-5102 for the treatment of major symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis in patients with walking impairment with the initiation of a Phase 2 clinical study in June 2015. Through a license agreement with Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc, the Company's portfolio also includes two drugs exclusively licensed to Forest and commercially available in the United States for indications relating to Alzheimer's disease: Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules (formerly MDX-8704) and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules, launched in May 2015 and June 2013, respectively. In April 2014, the Company issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of its common stock in its initial public offering ("IPO"), which includes the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares, at a public offering price of $16.00 per share. Proceeds from the IPO were $42.6 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. In June2015, the Company entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which it may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had issued 509,741 shares of common stock at an average price of $20.04 and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of its common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on November15, 2000. The Company's headquarters and operations are located in Emeryville, California. The Company has four insignificant subsidiaries. 2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The financial statements include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that the Company believes are necessary for a fair 7 presentation of the periods presented. The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any other future period and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Liquidity and Financial Condition To date, nearly all of the Company's resources have been dedicated to the research and development of its products, and the Company has not generated any commercial revenue from the sale of its products. The Company does not anticipate the generation of any commercial product revenue until it receives the necessary regulatory approvals to launch one of its products. Based upon the current status of, and plans for, its product development, the Company believes that the existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $169.2 million as of March 31, 2016 will be adequate to satisfy the Company's capital needs through at least the next twelve months. However, the process of developing and commercializing products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing arrangements, as well as regulatory approvals. These activities, together with the Company's general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in significant operating losses until the commercialization of the Company's products or license agreements generate sufficient revenue to cover expenses. While the Company had net income during 2014 and 2013, it has not generated any commercial revenue from sales of its products. Under its license agreement with Forest, the Company received the final milestone payment in 2014, and is not entitled to receive any royalties for sales of Namzaric until mid-2020 and Namenda XR until mid-2018. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company, alone or with others, must successfully develop its product candidates, obtain required regulatory approvals, and successfully manufacture and market its products. Use of Estimates The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, fair value of assets and liabilities, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Forward Stock Split In March2014, the Board of Directors of the Company and stockholders approved a forward stock split of the Company's common and preferred stock. As a result, common and preferred stock, stock options and warrants to purchase common and preferred stock were adjusted in the ratio of 2:1, effective March24, 2014. All common and preferred shares and per share amounts presented in these condensed consolidated financial statements for all periods have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 forward stock split. No fractional shares were issued. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all four of the following criteria have been met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii)the fee is fixed or determinable and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue under license arrangements is recognized based on the 8 performance requirements of the contract. Determinations of whether persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and whether delivery has occurred or services have been rendered are based on management's judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fees charged for deliverables and the collectability of those fees. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine that these criteria are not met for any new or modified transactions, revenue recognized could be adversely affected. The Company generates revenue from collaboration and license agreements for the development and commercialization of products. Collaboration and license agreements may include non-refundable upfront license fees, partial or complete reimbursement of research and development costs, contingent consideration payments based on the achievement of defined objectives and royalties on sales of commercialized products. The Company's performance obligations under the collaboration and license agreements may include the license or transfer of intellectual property rights, obligations to provide research and development services and related materials and obligations to participate on certain development and/or commercialization committees with the partners. For revenue agreements with multiple-element arrangements, the Company allocates revenue to each non-contingent element based on the relative-selling-price of each element in an arrangement. When applying the relative-selling-price method, the Company determines the selling price for each deliverable using the following estimation hierarchy: (i)vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the deliverable, if it exists, (ii)third-party evidence of selling price, if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available or (iii)vendor's best estimate of selling price, if neither vendor-specific nor third-party evidence is available. Revenue allocated is then recognized when the four basic revenue recognition criteria, mentioned above, are met for each element . The Company recognizes payments that are contingent upon achievement of a substantive milestone in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Milestones are defined as events that can only be achieved based on the Company's performance and there is substantive uncertainty about whether the event will be achieved at the inception of the arrangement. Events that are contingent only on the passage of time or only on counterparty performance are not considered milestones subject to this guidance. Further, the amounts received must relate solely to prior performance, be reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms within the agreement and commensurate with the Company's performance to achieve the milestone after commencement of the agreement. Amounts related to research and development funding and full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are recognized as the related services or activities are performed, in accordance with the contract terms. Clinical Trial Accruals The Company's clinical trial accruals are based on estimates of patient enrollment and related costs at clinical investigator sites as well as estimates for the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and clinical research organizations ("CROs") that conduct and manage clinical trials on the Company's behalf. The Company estimates clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company obtains the reported level of patient enrollment at each site and estimates the time period over which services will be performed and activity expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. 9 Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenses include salaries and related compensation, contractor and consultant fees, external clinical trial expenses performed by contract research organizations ("CRO"), licensing fees, acquired intellectual property with no alternative future use, and facility and administrative expense allocations. In addition, the Company funds R&D at research institutions under agreements that are generally cancelable at its option. Research costs typically consist of applied research and preclinical and toxicology work. Pharmaceutical manufacturing development costs consist of product formulation, chemical analysis, and the transfer and scale-up of manufacturing at the Company's contract manufacturers. Clinical development costs include the costs of Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 clinical trials. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses. The Company accrues costs for clinical trial activities performed by contract research organizations and other third parties based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each study as provided by the CRO. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness by its internal clinical personnel, and the Company aims to match the accrual to actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities. The Company monitors patient enrollment levels and related activities using available information; however, if the Company underestimates activity levels associated with various studies at a given point in time, the Company could be required to record significant additional R&D expenses in future periods when the actual activity level becomes known. The Company charges all such costs to R&D expenses. Non-refundable advance payments are capitalized and expensed as the related goods are delivered or services are performed. Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders Basic net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Common stock equivalents are options granted under the Company's stock awards plans and are calculated under the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares from unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units are excluded from the computation when there is a loss as their effect is anti-dilutive, or if the exercise price of such options is greater than the average market price of the stock for the period. The Company incurred net losses for all periods presented and there were no reconciling items for potentially dilutive securities. At March 31, 2016 and 2015, approximately 5,370,000 and 456,000, respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share of common stock as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of stock options granted to employees and directors and for employee stock purchase plan shares by estimating the fair value of stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of restricted stock units granted to employees based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock-based awards are recognized and amortized over the applicable vesting period. All stock options awarded to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, as calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation at each reporting date as the underlying equity instruments vest. In order to estimate the value of share-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes model, which requires the use of certain subjective assumptions. The most significant subjective assumptions are management's estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from 10 any of these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company's results of operations could be materially impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amendment in this ASU provides guidance on the revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The core principle of this update provides guidance to identify the performance obligations under the contract(s) with a customer and how to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. It further provides guidance to recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date of this standard to 2018 for public companies, with an option that would permit companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date of 2017. Early adoption prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . This ASU provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a Company's ability to continue as a going concern and about related footnote disclosures. For each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this update are effective for annual periods ending after December15, 2016, and for interim periods within annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted for annual or interim reporting periods for which the financial statements have not previously been issued. The Company is evaluating the impact the revised guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements . In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . Under ASU 2015-17, a reporting entity is required to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Current guidance requiring the offsetting of deferred tax assets and liabilities of a tax-paying component of an entity and presentation as a single noncurrent amount is not affected. This ASU is effective for public business entities issuing financial statements for the annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. Entities may apply the update prospectively to all deferred tax assets and liabilities and taxes, or retrospectively for all periods presented. The effects of this update on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . The authoritative guidance significantly amends the current accounting for leases. Under the new provisions, all lessees will report a right-of-use asset and a liability for the obligation to make payments for all leases with the exception of those leases with a term of 12 months or less.All other leases will fall into one of two categories: (i) a financing lease or (ii) an operating lease. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged with the exception that no leases entered into after the effective date will be classified as leveraged leases. For sale leaseback transactions, a sale will only be recognized if the criteria in the new revenue recognition standard are met. For public business entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods thereafter.Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation .The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. 11 This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS In accordance with ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, the Company determines the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level 1 inputs which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 inputs which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For available-for-sale securities, the Company reviews trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable market data; and Level 3 inputs which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation. The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities which require fair value measurement on a recurring basis (in thousands): Money market funds are highly liquid investments and are actively traded. The pricing information on these investment instruments are readily available and can be independently validated as of the measurement date. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes are measured at fair value using level 2 inputs. The Company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of each measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in 12 active markets or these inputs have been derived from observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There were no transfers to or from Level 1 and Level 2 during the three months ended March 31, 2016. 4.INVESTMENTS The Company's investments consist of corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes classified as available-for-sale securities. The Company limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution, maturity, and investment type. To mitigate credit risk, the Company invests in investment grade corporate debt and United States Treasury notes. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and shown separately as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive loss to other income (expense) on the condensed consolidated statements of operations when incurred. The Company may pay a premium or receive a discount upon the purchase of available-for-sale securities. Interest earned and gains realized on available-for-sale securities and amortization of discounts received and accretion of premiums paid on the purchase of available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The following table is a summary of amortized cost, unrealized gain and loss, and the fair value of available-for-sale securities as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands): Short -term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.5 million and $17,000 respectively, as of March 31, 2016. Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.4 million and $36,000, respectively, as of December 31, 2015. The Company has not incurred any realized gains or losses on investments for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Investments are classified as short-term or long-term depending on the 13 underlying investment's maturity date. Long-term investments have a maturity date range of greater than 12 months and a maximum of 17 months as of March 31, 2016. 5. License Agreements In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license, with right to sublicense, certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. In connection with these rights, Forest markets and sells Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. Pursuant to the agreement, Forest made an upfront payment of $65.0 million. The Company earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones. Under the agreement, external costs incurred related to the prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights are reimbursable.As of March 31, 2016, amounts reimbursed of $0.3 million are reflected as a reduction to general andadministrative, net. In addition, the Company may earn tiered royalty payments based on future net sales of Namzaric and Namenda XR. The Company is entitled to receive royalties on net sales in the United States by Forest, its affiliates, or any of its sublicensees of controlled-release versions of memantine products covered by the terms of the license agreement. Beginning in May 2020, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low double digits to the mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States and in June 2018, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to fixed-dose memantine-donepezil products, including Namzaric, continues until the later of (i) 15 years after the commercial launch of the first fixed-dose memantine-donepezil product by Forest in the United States or (ii) the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents for which Forest obtained rights from the Company covering such product. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to Namenda XR continues until the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents covering such products. However, Forest's obligation to pay royalties for any product covered by the license is eliminated in any quarter where there is significant competition from generics. 6.WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK In conjunction with various financings between 2002 and 2012, the Company issued warrants to purchase 758,994 shares of convertible preferred stock and 127,780 shares of common stock. The relative fair value of these warrants was determined using the Black-Scholes model and was amortized to interest expense over the term of each loan, unless subsequently modified. Immediately prior to the completion of the Company's IPO in 2014, 206,162 of the warrants to purchase common stock were either exercised for cash or automatically net exercised for a total issuance of 199,837 shares of common stock, pursuant to the terms of the warrants. In July 2015, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,116 shares of common stock were exercised in a cashless exercise, resulting in the issuance of 3,484 shares of common stock. As of both March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there were no warrants to purchase common stock outstanding. 7.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments The Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet of office space in Emeryville, California under an operating lease that expires April 30, 2020. The lease provides for periods of escalating rent. The total cash payments over the life of the lease are divided by the total number of months in the lease period and the average rent is charged to expense each month during the lease period. 14 As of March 31, 2016, future minimum lease payments under a non-cancelable facility operating lease including related office equipment were as follows (in thousands): Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations and warranties and provide for general indemnifications. The Company's exposure under these agreements is unknown, because it involves claims that may be made against the Company in the future, but have not yet been made. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Indemnification In accordance with the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, the Company has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they are serving in such capacity. There have been no claims to date, and the Company has a directors and officers liability insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any amounts paid for future claims. Litigation In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license to certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. Under the terms of that license agreement, Forest has the right to enforce such intellectual property rights which are related to its right to market and sell Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. The Company has a right to participate in, but not control, such enforcement actions by Forest. As of the date of this filing, several companies have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in June 2018. In the notices, these companies allege that the patents associated with Namenda XR, some of which are owned by Forest or licensed by Forest from Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and others of which are owned by the Company and licensed by the Company exclusively to Forest in the United States, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the companies' manufacture, use, or sale of generic versions of Namenda XR. The Company, Forest, Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH (together Merz) filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the relevant patents against all of these companies. The parties are collectively seeking judgment that (i) the defendants have infringed the patents at issue, (ii) the effective date of any approval of the defendants' ANDAs shall not be earlier than the expiration date of the last to expire of the relevant patents, including any extensions or exclusivities, (iii) the defendants be enjoined from commercially manufacturing, using, offering for sale, or selling in the United States, or importing into the United States, any products that infringe or induce or contribute to the infringement of the patents at issue prior to the expiration date of the last to expire of the patents, including extensions and 15 exclusivities, and (iv) the Company, Forest, and Merz be awarded monetary relief, in addition to any attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses relating to the actions. The Company and Forest have entered into a series of settlement agreements with the Namenda XR ANDA filers, except for two remaining defendants. The earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namenda XR is January 31, 2020 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namenda XR beginning on January 31, 2021. In January 2016, the Delaware District Court issued a claim construction (Markman) ruling in the Namenda XR litigation that includes findings of indefiniteness as to certain claim terms in the asserted patents licensed by the Company to Forest, which may negatively impact at least some of the patent claims. The Company and Forest continue to review the ruling to determine how it may also affect the ANDA litigation regarding Namzaric, which is described below. In February 2016, Forest and Adamas proceeded to trial against one defendant with respect to one of the asserted patents, and no final judgment has been issued by the District Court . As of the date of this filing, Forest and Adamas have reached agreement on settlement with that defendant subject to Court approval . Additionally, as of the date of this filing, four companies have submitted ANDAs requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in May 2020. The Company and Forest have begun to file lawsuits alleging infringement of the relevant patents against Namzaric ANDA filers in the same court and seeking comparable relief as in the Namenda XR case. The Markman hearing is scheduled for November 2016 and the trial is scheduled for October 2017. Because these Namenda XR and Namzaric enforcement actions were filed within the requisite 45-day period provided in the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, there are stays preventing FDA approval of the ANDAs involved in both litigations for 30 months or until a court decision adverse to the patents. The 30-month stays for these Namenda XR and Namzaric ANDAs will expire beginning in June 2016 and January 2018, respectively. From time to time, the Company may be party to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims in the ordinary course of its business. Other than the matters described above, the Company is not presently a party to any material legal proceedings. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Common Stock The amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company to issue 100,000,000shares of common stock. Common stockholders are entitled to dividends as and when declared by the board of directors, subject to the rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights as to dividends. There have been no dividends declared to date. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. The Company has classified payments received for all unvested shares of common stock issued upon the early exercise of stock options as employee deposits (a liability) as these options are not considered to be substantively exercised until vested. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, zero and 3,000 shares of common stock, respectively, from early exercised options were unvested. Controlled Equity Offering On June 1, 2015, the Company entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement"), with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. ("Cantor"), as sales agent, pursuant to which the Company may, at its 16 discretion, issue and sell common stock from time to time with a value of up to a maximum of $25.0 million in an at-the-market offering. All sales of shares have been and will continue to be made pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on June 1, 2015. Cantor is acting as sole sales agent for any sales made under the Sales Agreement for a 3% commission on gross proceeds.The common stock is sold at prevailing market prices at the time of the sale, and, as a result, prices may vary. Unless otherwise terminated earlier, the Sales Agreement continues until all shares available under the Sales Agreement have been sold. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, there were no additional shares sold under the Sales Agreement. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had sold a total of 509,741 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $20.04 for net proceeds of $9.7 million. Public Offering On January 6, 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. Shares reserved for Future Issuance Shares of Company's common stock reserved for future issuance are as follows: 9.STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock Compensation Plans In 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted, and in March 2014 the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective on the completion of the IPO. The number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year for a period of up to 10 years, commencing on the first day of the fiscal year following 2014, in an amount equal to 4% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on the last day of the preceding fiscal year, or a lesser number of shares as determined by the Company's board of directors. For 2016, the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Plan increased by 739,708 shares of common stock. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Inducement Plan (the "Inducement Plan") under which 450,000 shares of the Company's common stock were made available for issuance. Options granted under the Inducement Plan may have terms of up to ten years. Consistent with the 2014 Plan, options granted generally vest over four years and vest at a rate of 25% upon the first anniversary of the issuance date and 1/48thper month thereafter. Restricted stock units granted vest at a rate of 25% per year over four years. The Inducement Plan was adopted by the board of directors without stockholder approval pursuant to Rule 5635(c)(4) of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had not granted any stock awards under the 2016 Inducement Plan . 17 The stock option and related activity under all of the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: The restricted stock unit and related activity under the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted and, in March 2014, the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective on the completion of the Company's IPO. Beginning January 1, 2015 and continuing through and including January 1, 2024, the amount of common stock reserved for issuance under the ESPP will increase annually on that date by the lesser of (i) one percent (1%) of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on such December 31, (ii) 520,000 shares of common stock, or (iii) a number of shares as determined by the board of directors prior to the beginning of each year, which shall be the lesser of (i) or (ii) above. For 2016, the common stock available for issuance under the ESPP increased by 184,927 shares of common stock. 18 Stock-Based Compensation The following table reflects stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively (in thousands): As of March 31, 2016, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options of approximately $24.0 million. This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.9 years . As of March 31, 2016, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSU's of approximately $1.8 million. This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 4.0 years. 19 ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the section of this report entitled "Selected financial data" and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk factors." Overview We are a pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of therapeutics targeting chronic disorders of the central nervous system ("CNS"). We seek to achieve this by enhancing the pharmacokinetic profiles of approved drugs to create novel therapeutics for use alone and in fixed-dose combination products. Our business strategy is twofold. We intend to develop and commercialize our wholly-owned products directly. In addition, we may form partnerships with companies that have an already established CNS market presence. We are developing our lead wholly-owned product candidate, ADS-5102 (amantadine hydrochloride), for multiple indications, including: a complication associated with the treatment of Parkinson's disease known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID"), for major symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis in patients with walking impairment, and potentially as a treatment for one or more additional CNS indications. ADS-5102 is an extended-release version of amantadine that is intended for once daily administration at bedtime. ADS-5102 is designed to improve upon the pharmacokinetic profile of immediate-release amantadine, with the aim of enhancing efficacy without compromising the known tolerability profile. After successful completion of a Phase 2/3 clinical study in LID in 2013, we initiated two confirmatory Phase 3 trials and a separate open-label safety study in 2014 . We completed enrollment in the larger of these trials, EASE LID, in July 2015, and the smaller, EASE LID 3, in December 2015. We announced top-line results of EASE LID in December 2015. In April 2016, we announced that the Phase 3 trial (EASE LID 3) evaluating ADS-5102 extended-release capsules for the treatment of LID associated with Parkinson's disease met its primary and key secondary endpoints. EASE LID 3, which enrolled 77 patients at sites located in the United States, Germany, France, Spain, and Austria, was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 340 mg of ADS-5102 dosed once daily at bedtime for 12 weeks. Results from the study showed a statistically significant improvement (p<0.0001) in LID at 12 weeks (primary endpoint) for patients who received ADS-5102. Additionally, a statistically significant increase in ON time without troublesome LID (p=0.0168) and a statistically significant decrease in OFF time (p=0.0199) versus placebo, both key secondary endpoints, were observed. The types of adverse events (AE) reported with ADS-5102 in the EASE LID 3 trial were consistent with the safety results from our earlier randomized clinical studies of ADS-5102. Four patients, all in the ADS-5102 group, experienced serious AEs, which were considered related to study drug in one patient.This patient continued on study treatment and did not discontinue participation in the trial.Overall, ten patients discontinued study treatment due to an AE, seven patients in the ADS-5102 group and three in the placebo group.The safety results of the EASE LID 3 trial were consistent with the known safety profile of amantadine. We expect to submit a New Drug Application ("NDA") to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID in 2016. 20 We are also exploring the utility of ADS-5102 for the treatment of major symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis in patients with walking impairment with the initiation of a Phase 2 clinical study in June2015. We anticipate results from this study in 2016. We may also explore the development of ADS-5102 in additional indications, as well as in combinations with other drugs . We have also commenced development of ADS-4101, an extended-release version of an FDA-approved single-agent compound for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures). We expect that this new program will progress into clinical trials in 2016. We plan to commercialize ADS-5102, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates, if approved, by developing a small CNS commercial organization, including a sales force targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, and possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with CNS-focused pharmaceutical companies. Through a license agreement with Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc, our portfolio includes two drugs exclusively licensed to Forest and commercially available in the United States: Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) (formerly MDX-8704) and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules, launched in May2015 and June2013, respectively . Financial operations overview Summary Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from license, milestone, and development revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. We have not generated any commercial product revenue. As of March 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $76.0million. Although we reported net income in each of the years ended December31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, this was primarily due to the recognition of revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. There are no further milestone payments to be earned under our license agreement with Forest. We cannot assure you that we will receive additional license revenue in the future. We incurred significant losses in the first quarter of 2016, in 2015, and prior to 2012 and expect to incur significant and increasing losses in the foreseeable future as we advance our product candidates into later stages of development and, if approved, commercialization. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue to advance our product candidates through clinical development. In addition, we plan to commercialize ADS-5102, if approved, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates by developing a CNS commercial organization, including a sales force targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, and possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with CNS-focused pharmaceutical companies. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses incurred or when, or if, we will be able to achieve sustained profitability. Under our agreement with Forest, beginning in May2020, we are entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low double digits to the mid-teens for sales of Namzaric in the United States. In addition, we are also entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digits from Forest for sales of Namenda XR in the United States beginning in June2018, however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $65.0million in 2012, which we recognized on a straight-line basis from November2012 to February2013. We earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones, which we recognized in 2013 and 2014. 21 Prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, in April2014, we had raised an aggregate of approximately $87.2million through the sale of convertible preferred stock and $1.0 million through the exercise of preferred stock warrants. In 2014, we issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of common stock in our IPO and received net proceeds of approximately $42.6 million, which included partial exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares and after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of our IPO, all convertible preferred stock converted into common stock. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2016, we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. In January 2016, we raised $61.8 million from the sale of 2,875,000 shares of common stock in a follow-on public offering. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities of $169.2million. Revenue We have not generated any revenue from commercial product sales to date. Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from non-refundable upfront license payments, milestone payments, reimbursements for research and development expenses and full-time equivalents assigned under our license agreement with Forest, and to a lesser degree reimbursement for research and development expenses from NIH grants and government contracts. We do not expect to recognize any further milestone payments under our license agreement with Forest, while reimbursements for full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are expected to remain at modest levels in future periods. Beginning in May2020, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low double digits to the mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States and in June2018, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. We were also awarded a continuation of an NIH grant for $1.0 million in August2014, which we will administer, but conduct through subcontractors. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our wholly-owned product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our agreement with Forest. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses consist of: fees paid to clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, consultants, and vendors, including clinical research organizations, or CROs, in conjunction with implementing, conducting, and monitoring our clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating clinical trial data, including all related fees, such as for investigator grants, patient screening fees, laboratory work, and statistical compilation and analysis; expenses related to production of clinical supplies, including fees paid to contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs; expenses related to compliance with regulatory requirements; other consulting fees paid to third parties; and employee-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. 22 The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): The program-specific expenses summarized in the table above include costs directly attributable to our product candidates. Other research and development expenses include costs not allocated to a specific program. We allocate research and development salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, and indirect costs to our product candidates on a program-specific basis, and we include these costs in the program-specific expenses. We have reallocated certain other research and development expenses to program-specific expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 in order to consistently classify our product candidate expenses between periods. The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. We anticipate to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue our clinical trials for ADS-5102 in LID and major symptoms associated with MS, ADS-4101 for treatment of epilepsy, and potentially initiate additional clinical-stage programs in more indications or for future product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA approval is costly and time consuming. We consider the active management and development of our clinical pipeline to be crucial to our long-term success. The actual probability of success for each product candidate and clinical program may be affected by a variety of factors including but not limited to the quality of the product candidate, early clinical data, investment in the program, competition, manufacturing capability, and commercial viability. Furthermore, in the past we have entered into licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or collaborations in the future. In situations in which third parties have control over the clinical development of a product candidate, the estimated completion dates are largely under the control of such third parties and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates, if any, will be subject to future licensing or collaboration arrangements or how such arrangements would affect our development plans or capital requirements. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net consist primarily of personnel and related benefit costs, facilities, professional services, insurance, and public company related expenses, reduced by reimbursement from Forest for external costs related to supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights under our license agreement. We anticipate our general and administrative expenses will increase as we continue to support our clinical and potentially commercial-stage programs. If ADS-5102 is approved by the FDA, we plan to market and sell through our own sales force targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, and possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with CNS-focused pharmaceutical companies, which will further increase general and administrative expenses. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest received on our investments. 23 Critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant and material changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to those disclosed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Results of operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue Revenue was essentially unchanged at $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Revenue for both periods in 2016 and 2015 was primarily related to reimbursement of certain expenses as provided for in our license agreement with Forest, as well as from government contracts. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses were essentially unchanged at $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was also unchanged at $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in the prior year. There was a decrease in research and development expenses attributed to ADS-5102 for LID primarily due to the completion in enrollment of our Phase 3 program, offset by an increase in our Phase 2 trial for the treatment of major symptoms associated with MS, and preclinical efforts in support of ADS-4101 for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures). 24 General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses increased by $1.7million, or 35%, to $6.6million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $4.9million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in headcount-related expenses to expand our capabilities as a pre-commercial company. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will increase through the remaining quarters of 2016, reflecting increased investment in pre-commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest and other income, net Interest and other income, net, increased by $82,000, or 105%, to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $78,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Net interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to interest income earned on investments. Liquidity, capital resources and plan of operation We have funded our operations primarily through $160.0 million of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, $88.2 million sales of convertible preferred stock and warrants, and $114.1 million pursuant to sales of our common stock. In April 2014, we completed our IPO and raised net proceeds of $42.6 million, including the underwriters' partial exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of March 31, 2016, we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. On January 6, 2016, we completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. We incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since inception through the year ended December31, 2011. Although in 2014, 2013, and 2012, we recognized a profit and positive cash flow as a result of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, we received our final milestone payment from Forest in December2014, and we do not currently receive any royalties from Forest, nor do we have other license agreements or collaborations from which we might expect milestone or royalty revenue. Consequently, we expect to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. Our principal sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which totaled $169.2 million as of March 31, 2016. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including operations related to the continued development of ADS-5102 for LID, for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we will not achieve the progress that we expect, because the actual costs and timing of drug development, particularly clinical studies, and regulatory approvals are difficult to predict, subject to substantial risks and delays, and often vary depending on the particular indication and development strategy. We expect to continue significant spending in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, particularly for ADS-5102 for LID, as well as other indications. In order to continue these activities, we may decide to raise additional funds through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, and other strategic alliances. Sufficient additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of, or put on hold our clinical studies, research and development programs, or commercialization efforts. 25 The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Net cash used in operating activities was $12.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $14.1 million for the same period in the prior year. Net loss of $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 included net non-cash adjustments of $2.9 million, which consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $2.6 million. Net loss of $12.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 included non-cash adjustments of $2.4 million, primarily related to $2.1 million in stock-based compensation. The primary use of cash for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was to fund the ongoing clinical studies and product development activities related to ADS-5102. Net cash provided by investing activities was $15.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $18.5 million for the same period in the prior year. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was a result of $16.1 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities offset by purchases of $0.5 million of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was a result of purchases of $18.4 million of available-for-sale securities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $62.2million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. In the period ended March 31, 2016, we received net cash proceeds of $61.8 million, inclusive of $0.2 million of offering costs recorded in accounts payable, related to the sale of common stock under a follow-on public offering. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 we received cash proceeds of $0.2 million related to the exercise of stock options, compared to the same period in the prior year, in which we received $0.3 million related to the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. 26ITEM 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in thousands, except share and per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1.DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") is a pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of therapeutics targeting chronic disorders of the central nervous systems ("CNS"). The Company seeks to achieve this by enhancing the pharmacokinetic profiles of approved drugs to create novel therapeutics for use alone and in fixed-dose combination products. The Company is currently developing two wholly-owned product candidates. The first product candidate is ADS-5102 (amantadine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID") associated with the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The Company has obtained an orphan designation for ADS-5102 in that indication. Also, the Company is exploring the utility of ADS-5102 for the treatment of walking impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis. The second product candidate is ADS-4101, an extended-release version of an FDA-approved single-agent compound for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures). In addition, the Company contributed to the development of two medicines , which have been exclusively licensed to Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc: Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules; and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules. In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of its common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on November15, 2000. The Company's headquarters and operations are located in Emeryville, California. The Company has four insignificant subsidiaries. 2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The financial statements include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that the Company believes are necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any other future period and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Liquidity and Financial Condition To date, nearly all of the Company's resources have been dedicated to the research and development of its products . T he Company has not generated any commercial revenue from the sale of its products , and does not anticipate the generation of any commercial product revenue until it receives the necessary regulatory approval to launch one of its products. 7 Based upon the current status of, and plans for, its product development, the Company believes that the existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $158.0 million as of June 30, 2016 will be adequate to satisfy the Company's capital needs through at least the next twelve months. However, the process of developing and commercializing products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing arrangements, as well as regulatory approvals. These activities, together with the Company's general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in significant operating losses until the commercialization of the Company's products or license agreements generate sufficient revenue to offset expenses. While the Company had net income during 2014 and 2013, it has not generated any commercial revenue from sales of its products. Under its license agreement with Forest, the Company received the final milestone payment in 2014, and is not entitled to receive any royalties for sales of Namzaric until mid-2020 and Namenda XR until mid-2018. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company, alone or with others, must successfully develop its product candidates, obtain required regulatory approvals, and successfully manufacture and market its products. Use of Estimates The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, fair value of assets and liabilities, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Forward Stock Split In March2014, the Board of Directors of the Company and stockholders approved a forward stock split of the Company's common and preferred stock. As a result, common and preferred stock, stock options and warrants to purchase common and preferred stock were adjusted in the ratio of 2 :1, effective March24, 2014. All common and preferred shares and per share amounts presented in these condensed consolidated financial statements for all periods have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the 2 -for-1 forward stock split. No fractional shares were issued. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all four of the following criteria have been met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii)the fee is fixed or determinable and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue under license arrangements is recognized based on the performance requirements of the contract. Determinations of whether persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and whether delivery has occurred or services have been rendered are based on management's judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fees charged for deliverables and the collectability of those fees. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine that these criteria are not met for any new or modified transactions, revenue recognized could be adversely affected. The Company generates revenue from collaboration and license agreements for the development and commercialization of products. Collaboration and license agreements may include non-refundable upfront license fees, partial or complete reimbursement of research and development costs, contingent consideration payments based on the achievement of defined objectives , and royalties on sales of commercialized products. The Company's performance obligations under the collaboration and license agreements may include the license or transfer of intellectual property rights, obligations to provide research and development services and related materials , and obligations to participate on certain development and/or commercialization committees with the partners. 8 For revenue agreements with multiple-element arrangements, the Company allocates revenue to each non-contingent element based on the relative-selling-price of each element in an arrangement. When applying the relative-selling-price method, the Company determines the selling price for each deliverable using the following estimation hierarchy: (i)vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the deliverable, if it exists, (ii)third-party evidence of selling price, if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available or (iii) the vendor's best estimate of selling price, if neither vendor-specific nor third-party evidence is available. Revenue allocated is then recognized when the four basic revenue recognition criteria, mentioned above, are met for each element . The Company recognizes payments that are contingent upon achievement of a substantive milestone in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Milestones are defined as events that can only be achieved based on the Company's performance and there is substantive uncertainty about whether the event will be achieved at the inception of the arrangement. Events that are contingent only on the passage of time or only on counterparty performance are not considered milestones subject to this guidance. Further, the amounts received must relate solely to prior performance, be reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms within the agreement and commensurate with the Company's performance to achieve the milestone after commencement of the agreement. Amounts related to research and development funding and full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are recognized as the related services or activities are performed, in accordance with the contract terms. Clinical Trial Accruals The Company's clinical trial accruals are based on estimates of patient enrollment and related costs at clinical investigator sites as well as estimates for the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and clinical research organizations ("CROs") that conduct and manage clinical trials on the Company's behalf. The Company estimates clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company obtains the reported level of patient enrollment at each site and estimates the time period over which services will be performed and activity expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenses include salaries and related compensation, contractor and consultant fees, external clinical trial expenses performed by contract research organizations ("CRO"), licensing fees, acquired intellectual property with no alternative future use, and facility and administrative expense allocations. In addition, the Company funds R&D at research institutions under agreements that are generally cancelable at its option. Research costs typically consist of applied research and preclinical and toxicology work. Pharmaceutical manufacturing development costs consist of product formulation, chemical analysis, and the transfer and scale-up of manufacturing at the Company's contract manufacturers. Clinical development costs include the costs of Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 clinical trials. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses. The Company accrues costs for clinical trial activities performed by contract research organizations and other third parties based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each study as provided by the CRO. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness by the Company's internal clinical personnel, and the Company aims to match the accrual to actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities. The Company monitors patient enrollment levels and related activities using available information; however, if 9 the Company underestimates activity levels associated with various studies at a given point in time, the Company could be required to record significant additional R&D expenses in future periods when the actual activity level becomes known. The Company charges all such costs to R&D expenses. Non-refundable advance payments are capitalized and expensed as the related goods are delivered or services are performed. Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Common stock equivalents are options granted under the Company's stock awards plans and are calculated under the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares from unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units are excluded from the computation when there is a loss as their effect is anti-dilutive, or if the exercise price of such options is greater than the average market price of the stock for the period. The Company incurred net losses for all periods presented and there were no reconciling items for potentially dilutive securities. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, approximately 5,714,000 and 5,542,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, approximately 1,496,000 and 1,798,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of stock options granted to employees and directors and for employee stock purchase plan shares by estimating the fair value of stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of restricted stock units granted to employees based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock-based awards are recognized and amortized over the applicable vesting period. All stock options awarded to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, as calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation at each reporting date as the underlying equity instruments vest. In order to estimate the value of share-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes model, which requires the use of certain subjective assumptions. The most significant subjective assumptions are management's estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from any of these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company's results of operations could be materially impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amendment in this ASU provides guidance on the revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The core principle of this update provides guidance to identify the performance obligations under the contract(s) with a customer and how to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. It further provides guidance to recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date of this standard to 2018 for public companies, with an option that would permit companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date of 2017. Early adoption prior to the original effective date is not permitted. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB has issued several amendments which clarify certain points, including ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting 10 Revenue Gross versus Net) , ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting , and ASU 201-16, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients . The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect s of the standard s on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . This ASU provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a Company's ability to continue as a going concern and about related footnote disclosures. For each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this update are effective for annual periods ending after December15, 2016, and for interim periods within annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted for annual or interim reporting periods for which the financial statements have not previously been issued. The Company is evaluating the impact the revised guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements . In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . Under ASU 2015-17, a reporting entity is required to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Current guidance requiring the offsetting of deferred tax assets and liabilities of a tax-paying component of an entity and presentation as a single noncurrent amount is not affected. This ASU is effective for public business entities issuing financial statements for the annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. Entities may apply the update prospectively to all deferred tax assets and liabilities and taxes, or retrospectively for all periods presented. The effects of this update on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . The authoritative guidance significantly amends the current accounting for leases. Under the new provisions, all lessees will report a right-of-use asset and a liability for the obligation to make payments for all leases with the exception of those leases with a term of 12 months or less.All other leases will fall into one of two categories: (i) a financing lease or (ii) an operating lease. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged with the exception that no leases entered into after the effective date will be classified as leveraged leases. For sale leaseback transactions, a sale will only be recognized if the criteria in the new revenue recognition standard are met. For public business entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods thereafter.Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation .The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS In accordance with ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, the Company determines the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level 1 inputs , which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 11 Level 2 inputs , which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For available-for-sale securities, the Company reviews trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable market data; and Level 3 inputs , which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies , or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation. The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities which require fair value measurement on a recurring basis (in thousands): Money market funds are highly liquid investments and are actively traded. The pricing information on these investment instruments are readily available and can be independently validated as of the measurement date. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes are measured at fair value using L evel 2 inputs. The Company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of each measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or these inputs have been derived from observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There were no transfers to or from Level 1 and Level 2 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. 4.INVESTMENTS The Company's investments consist of corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes classified as available-for-sale securities. 12 The Company limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution, maturity, and investment type. To mitigate credit risk, the Company invests in investment grade corporate debt and United States Treasury notes. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and shown separately as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive loss to other income (expense) on the condensed consolidated statements of operations when incurred. The Company may pay a premium or receive a discount upon the purchase of available-for-sale securities. Interest earned and gains realized on available-for-sale securities and amortization of discounts received and accretion of premiums paid on the purchase of available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The following table is a summary of amortized cost, unrealized gain and loss, and the fair value of available-for-sale securities as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands): Short -term and long-term investments include s accrued interest of $0 .2 million and $4,000 respectively, as of June 30, 2016. Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.4 million and $36,000 , respectively, as of December 31, 2015. The Company has not incurred any realized gains or losses on investments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Investments are classified as short-term or long-term depending on the underlying investment's maturity date. Long-term investments held by the Company have a maturity date range of greater than 12 months and a maximum of 14 months as of June 30, 2016. 5. License Agreements In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license, with right to sublicense, certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. In connection with these rights, Forest markets and sells Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. Pursuant to the agreement, Forest made an upfront payment of $65.0 million. The Company earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones. Under the agreement, external costs incurred related to the 13 prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights are reimbursable. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , reimbursed expenses amounting to $1 .2 million are reflected as a reduction to general andadministrative, net. The Company is entitled to receive royalties on net sales in the United States by Forest, its affiliates, or any of its sublicensees of controlled-release versions of memantine products covered by the terms of the license agreement. Beginning in May 2020, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States . Beginning in June 2018, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to fixed-dose memantine-donepezil products, including Namzaric, continues until the later of (i) 15 years after the commercial launch of the first fixed-dose memantine-donepezil product by Forest in the United States or (ii) the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents for which Forest obtained rights from the Company covering such product. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to Namenda XR continues until the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents covering such products. However, Forest's obligation to pay royalties for any product covered by the license is eliminated in any quarter where there is significant competition from generics. 6.WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK In conjunction with various financings between 2002 and 2012, the Company issued warrants to purchase 758,994 shares of convertible preferred stock and 127,780 shares of common stock. The relative fair value of these warrants was determined using the Black-Scholes model and was amortized to interest expense over the term of each loan, unless subsequently modified. Immediately prior to the completion of the Company's IPO in 2014, 206,162 of the warrants to purchase common stock were either exercised for cash or automatically net exercised for a total issuance of 199,837 shares of common stock, pursuant to the terms of the warrants. In July 2015, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,116 shares of common stock were exercised in a cashless exercise, resulting in the issuance of 3,484 shares of common stock. As of both June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there were no warrants to purchase common stock outstanding. 7.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments The Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet of office space in Emeryville, California under an operating lease that expires April 30, 2020. The lease provides for periods of escalating rent. The total cash payments over the life of the lease are divided by the total number of months in the lease period and the average rent is charged to expense each mon th during the lease period. As of June 30, 2016, future minimum lease payments under the non-cancelable facility operating lease were as follows (in thousands): 14 Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations and warranties and provide for general indemnifications. The Company's exposure under these agreements is unknown, because it involves claims that may be made against the Company in the future, but have not yet been made. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Indemnification In accordance with the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, the Company has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they are serving in such capacity. There have been no claims to date, and the Company has a directors and officers liability insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any amounts paid for future claims. Litigation In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license to certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. Under the terms of that license agreement, Forest has the right to enforce such intellectual property rights which are related to its right to market and sell Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. The Company has a right to participate in, but not control, such enforcement actions by Forest. As of the date of this filing, several companies have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in June 2018. In the notices, these companies allege that the patents associated with Namenda XR, some of which are owned by Forest or licensed by Forest from Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and others of which are owned by the Company and licensed by the Company exclusively to Forest in the United States, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the companies' manufacture, use, or sale of generic versions of Namenda XR. The Company, Forest, Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH (together Merz) filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the relevant patents against all of these companies. The parties are collectively seeking judgment that (i) the defendants have infringed the patents at issue, (ii) the effective date of any approval of the defendants' ANDAs shall not be earlier than the expiration date of the last to expire of the relevant patents, including any extensions or exclusivities, (iii) the defendants be enjoined from commercially manufacturing, using, offering for sale, or selling in the United States, or importing into the United States, any products that infringe or induce or contribute to the infringement of the patents at issue prior to the expiration date of the last to expire of the patents, including extensions and exclusivities, and (iv) the Company, Forest, and Merz be awarded monetary relief, in addition to any attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses relating to the actions. The Company and Forest have entered into a series of settlement agreements with the Namenda XR ANDA filers, except for one defendant with respect to the certain patents subject to the Markman ruling described below . Entry dates for generic Namenda XR are governed by the settlement agreements in that action. Subject to those agreements, t he earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namenda XR is January 31, 2020 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namenda XR beginning on January 31, 2021. In January 2016, the Delaware District Court issued a claim construction (Markman) ruling in the Namenda XR litigation that includes findings of indefiniteness as to certain claim terms in the asserted patents licensed by the Company to Forest . On July 26 , 2016, the District Court issued a final judgment of invalidity on those patents based 15 upon the Markman ruling. The Company and Forest plan to appeal that final judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit . Additionally, as of the date of this filing, four companies have submitted ANDAs requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in May 2020. The Company and Forest have begun to file lawsuits alleging infringement of the relevant patents against Namzaric ANDA filers , who are seeking to launch generic versions of Namzaric, in the same court as heard the Namenda XR litigation . As of the date of this filing, the Company and Forest have settled with two defendant s , granting a license to market generic version s of Namzaric in 2029 , although that date may not apply in any future settlements . The Markman hearing for these lawsuits is scheduled for November 2016 and the trial is scheduled for October 2017. Because the Namzaric enforcement actions were filed within the requisite 45-day period provided in the U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, there are stays preventing FDA approval of the ANDAs involved in both litigations for 30 months or until a court decision adverse to the patents. The 30-month stays for the Namzaric ANDAs will expire beginning in January 2018. From time to time, the Company may be party to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims in the ordinary course of its business. Other than the matters described above, the Company is not presently a party to any material legal proceedings. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Common Stock The amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. Common stockholders are entitled to dividends as and when declared by the board of directors, subject to the rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights as to dividends. There have been no dividends declared to date. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. The Company has classified payments received for all unvested shares of common stock issued upon the early exercise of stock options as employee deposits (a liability) as these options are not considered to be substantively exercised until vested. At June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, zero and 3,000 shares of common stock, respectively, from early exercised options were unvested. Controlled Equity Offering On June 1, 2015, the Company entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement"), with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. ("Cantor"), as sales agent, pursuant to which the Company may, at its discretion, issue and sell common stock from time to time with a value of up to a maximum of $25.0 million in an at-the-market offering. All sales of shares have been made pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on June 1, 2015. Cantor has acted as sole sales agent for any sales made under the Sales Agreement for a 3% commission on gross proceeds.The common stock has been sold at prevailing market prices at the time of the sale, and, as a result, prices have varied . Unless otherwise terminated earlier, the Sales Agreement continues to be in effect until all shares available under the Sales Agreement have been sold. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, there were no additional shares sold under the Sales Agreement. As of June 30, 2016, the Company had sold a total of 509,741 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $20.04 for net proceeds of $9.7 million. 16 Public Offering On January 6, 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. Shares reserved for Future Issuance Shares of Company's common stock reserved for future issuance are as follows: 9.STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock Compensation Plans In 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted, and in March 2014 the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective on the completion of the IPO. The number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year for a period of up to 10 years, commencing on the first day of the fiscal year following 2014, in an amount equal to 4% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on the last day of the preceding fiscal year, or a lesser number of shares as determined by the Company's board of directors. For 2016, the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Plan increased by 739,708 shares of common stock. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Inducement Plan (the "Inducement Plan") under which 450,000 shares of the Company's common stock were made available for issuance. Options granted under the Inducement Plan may have terms of up to ten years. Consistent with the 2014 Plan, options granted generally vest over four years and vest at a rate of 25% upon the first anniversary of the issuance date and 1/48th per month thereafter. Restricted stock units granted vest at a rate of 25% per year over four years. The Inducement Plan was adopted by the board of directors without stockholder approval pursuant to Rule 5635(c)(4) of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. 17 The stock option and related activity under all of the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: The restricted stock unit and related activity under the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted and, in March 2014, the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective on the completion of the Company's IPO. Beginning January 1, 2015 and continuing through and including January 1, 2024, the amount of common stock reserved for issuance under the ESPP will increase annually on that date by the lesser of (i) one percent (1%) of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on such December 31, (ii) 520,000 shares of common stock, or (iii) a number of shares as determined by the board of directors prior to the beginning of each year, which shall be the lesser of (i) or (ii) above. For 2016, the common stock available for issuance under the ESPP increased by 184,927 shares of common stock. 18 Stock-Based Compensation The following table reflects stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively (in thousands): As of June 30, 2016, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options of approximately $23.4 million. This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.7 years . As of June 30, 2016, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSU's of approximately $2.6 million. This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 3.8 years. 19 ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk factors." Overview We are a pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of therapeutics targeting chronic disorders of the central nervous system ("CNS"). We seek to achieve this by enhancing the pharmacokinetic profiles of approved drugs to create novel therapeutics for use alone and in fixed-dose combination products. Our business strategy is twofold. We intend to develop and commercialize our wholly-owned products. In addition, we may form partnerships with companies that have an already established CNS market presence. Our therapeutic programs address the following indications : levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID") associated with Parkinson's disease ("PD"), walking impairment in multiple sclerosis ("MS"), epilepsy, and Alzheimer's disease . Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that causes a variety of symptoms, such as tremors, rigidity, slowed movements , and postural instability. The most commonly prescribed treatments for PD are levodopa-based therapies. With these medicines, patients initially receive relief from symptoms of PD for much of the day. This period of relief is known as ON time. As the effects of levodopa wear off, the symptoms of PD return. This is known as OFF time. PD impacts over 800,000 people in the United States, while motor complications affect about 400,000 of these patients , and LID occurs in about 150,000 patients. LID can occur at the onset of levodopa initiation; it eventually occurs in approximately 90 percent of patients who have had PD for 10 years. There are no medicines approved in the United States for the treatment of LID . We have substantially completed a clinical development program with ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, including a positive Phase 2/3 study, two positive Phase 3 trials and a fully-enrolled and ongoing open-label safety study. Results from both Phase 3 studies demonstrated a statistically significant improvement for patients who received ADS-5102 versus placebo as assessed by the Unified Dyskinesia Rating Scale. In both Phase 3 studies, a statistically significant increase in ON time without troublesome LID was observed, as was a statistically significant decrease in OFF time versus placebo , a key secondary endpoint . The types of adverse events ("AEs") reported with ADS-5102 were consistent with the known safety profile of amantadine, and the safety results were consistent across trials. In 2016, we plan to submit our first New Drug Application ("NDA") for ADS-5102 (amantadine hydrochloride ) extended-release capsules for the treatment of LID. We are also developing ADS-5102 for the treatment of walking impairment in patients with MS, another CNS disorder , afflicting approximately 275,000 Americans. According to a 2013 survey of MS in America, approximately 75 percent of individuals with MS experience clinically significant walking impairment . In June 2016, we reported positive data from our Phase 2 study of ADS-5102 for the treatment of walking impairment in MS. A key walking assessment was the timed 25-foot walk test, a well-established outcome measure. At four weeks, a statistically significant placebo-adjusted improvement in walking speed was seen in the patients on ADS-5102. The types of AEs reported with ADS-5102 were consistent with the known safety profile of amantadine. 20 We are also developing another molecule, ADS-4101, for the treatment of partial onset seizures in epilepsy . There are approximately 2.2 million Americans living with epilepsy, a disease where seizure control is difficult to achieve. ADS-410 1 is an enhanced version of an approved anti-epileptic and is expected to enter clinical testing in 2016. In 2012, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc . T wo commercially available medicines have resulted from the partnership : Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules, launched in May2015 and June2013, respectively , for an indication relating to Alzheimer's disease. We expect to begin receiving royalties on net sales of Namenda XR in 2018 and Namzaric in 2020 . Financial operations overview Summary Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from license, milestone, and development revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. We have not generated any commercial product revenue. As of June 30, 2016 , we had an accumulated deficit of $92.9 million . Although we reported net income in each of the years ended December31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, this was primarily due to the recognition of revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. There are no further milestone payments to be earned under our license agreement with Forest. We cannot assure you that we will receive additional license revenue in the future. We incurred significant losses in the first half of 2016, in 2015, and prior to 2012 , and expect to incur significant and increasing losses in the foreseeable future as we advance our product candidates into later stages of development and, if approved, commercialization. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue to advance our product candidates through clinical development. In addition, we plan to commercialize ADS-5102, if approved, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates by developing a commercial organization, including a sales force targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, and possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with CNS-focused pharmaceutical companies. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization , we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses incurred or when, or if, we will be able to achieve sustained profitability. Under our agreement with Forest, beginning in May2020, we are entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-teens for sales of Namzaric in the United States. In addition, we are also entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digits from Forest for sales of Namenda XR in the United States beginning in June2018 ; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $65.0million in 2012, which we recognized on a straight-line basis from November2012 to February2013. We also earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones, which we recognized in 2013 and 2014. Prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, in April2014, we had raised an aggregate of approximately $87.2million through the sale of convertible preferred stock and $1.0 million through the exercise of preferred stock warrants. In 2014, we issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of common stock in our IPO and received net proceeds of approximately $42.6 million, which included partial exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares and after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of our IPO, all convertible preferred stock converted into common stock. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of June 30, 2016 , we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. In January 2016, we raised $61.8 million from the sale of 2,875,000 shares of common stock in a follow-on public offering. 21 As of June 30, 2016 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities of $158.0 million. Revenue We have not generated any revenue from commercial product sales to date. Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from non-refundable upfront license payments, milestone payments, reimbursements for research and development expenses and full-time equivalents assigned under our license agreement with Forest, and to a lesser degree reimbursement for research and development expenses from NIH grants and government contracts. We do not expect to recognize any further milestone payments under our license agreement with Forest, while reimbursements for full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are expected to remain at modest levels in future periods. Beginning in May2020, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States and in June2018, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. We were also awarded a continuation of an NIH grant for $1.0 million in August2014, which we will administer, but conduct through subcontractors. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our wholly-owned product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our agreement with Forest. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses consist of: fees paid to clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, consultants, and vendors, including clinical research organizations, or CROs, in conjunction with implementing, conducting, and monitoring our clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating clinical trial data, including all related fees, such as for investigator grants, patient screening fees, laboratory work, and statistical compilation and analysis; expenses related to production of clinical supplies, including fees paid to contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs; expenses related to compliance with regulatory requirements; other consulting fees paid to third parties; and employee-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): 22 The program-specific expenses summarized in the table above include costs directly attributable to our product candidates. Other research and development expenses include costs not allocated to a specific program. We allocate research and development salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, and indirect costs to our product candidates on a program-specific basis, and we include these costs in the program-specific expenses. We have reallocated certain other research and development expenses to program-specific expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 in order to consistently classify our product candidate expenses between periods. The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. We anticipate incur ring significant research and development expenses as we continue our clinical trials for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID and walking impairment associated with MS, ADS-4101 for treatment of epilepsy, and potentially initiate additional clinical-stage programs in more indications or for future product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA approval is costly and time consuming. We consider the active management and development of our clinical pipeline to be crucial to our long-term success. The actual probability of success for each product candidate and clinical program may be affected by a variety of factors including but not limited to the quality of the product candidate, early clinical data, investment in the program, competition, manufacturing capability, and commercial viability. Furthermore, in the past we have entered into licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or collaborations in the future. In situations in which third parties have control over the clinical development of a product candidate, the estimated completion dates are largely under the control of such third parties and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates, if any, will be subject to future licensing or collaboration arrangements or how such arrangements would affect our development plans or capital requirements. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net consist primarily of personnel and related benefit costs, facilities, professional services, insurance, and public company related expenses, reduced by reimbursement from Forest for external costs related to supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights under our license agreement. We anticipate our general and administrative expenses will increase as we continue to support our clinical and potentially commercial-stage programs. If ADS-5102 is approved by the FDA, we plan to market and sell through our own sales force targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, which will further increase general and administrative expenses , and possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with CNS-focused pharmaceutical companies . Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest received on our investments. Critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have discussed the development, selection , and disclosure 23 of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant and material changes in our critical accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , as compared to those disclosed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Results of operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue Revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, compared to $0.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the same periods in the prior year. Revenue for both periods in 2016 and 2015 was primarily related to reimbursement of certain expenses as provided for in our license agreement with Forest, as well as from government contracts. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses increased by $0.5 million, or 6% to $9.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . There were increased expenses to support the preparation of the new drug application for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID , in addition expenses related to preclinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures ) . The increase was offset by a decrease in research and development expenses attributed to the conclusion of two P hase 3 clinical trials for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was unchanged at $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 , compared to the same period in the prior year. Research and development expenses increased by $0.5 million , or 3% to $16.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $16.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . We were engaged in increased effort s to support the preparation of the new drug application for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID , in addition expenses related to preclinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seiz u r e s) in the first six months of 2016 as compared to the prior year . The increase was offset by a decrease in research and development expenses attributed to the concl usion of two P hase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of LID. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was $1.4 million compared to $1.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively . 24 General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $2.2 million, or 38% , to $8.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $5.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was due primarily to increase d costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercial launch of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval , including an increase in headcount-related expenses. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will increase through the remaining quarters of 2016, reflecting increased investment in pre-commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $3.9 million, or 37% , to $14.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $10.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to in creased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercial launch of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $3.8 million compared to $3.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest and other income, net Interest and other income, net, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively, compared to $0.1 and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . Net interest income is primarily due to interest income earned on investments. Liquidity, capital resources and plan of operation We have funded our operations primarily through $160.0 million of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, $88.2 million sales of convertible preferred stock and warrants, and $114.1 million pursuant to sales of our common stock. In April 2014, we completed our IPO and raised net proceeds of $42.6 million, including the underwriters' partial exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of June 30, 2016 , we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. On January 6, 2016, we completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. We incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since inception through the year ended December31, 2011. Although we recognized a profit and positive cash flow in 2014, 2013, and 2012 as a result of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, we received our final milestone payment from Forest in December2014 . W e do not currently receive any royalties from Forest, nor do we have other license agreements or collaborations from which we might expect milestone or royalty revenue. Consequently, we expect to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. Our principal sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which totaled $158.0 million as of June 30, 2016 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including operations related to the continued development of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we will not achieve the progress that we expect, because the actual costs and timing of drug development, particularly clinical studies, and regulatory approvals are difficult to 25 predict, subject to substantial risks and delays, and often vary depending on the particular indication and development strategy. We expect to continue significant spending in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, particularly for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, as well as other indications. In order to continue these activities, we may decide to raise additional funds through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, asset sales, and other marketing and distribution arrangements . Sufficient additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of, or put on hold our clinical studies, research and development programs, or commercialization efforts. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Net cash used in operating activities was $24.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $24.0 million for the same period in the prior year. Net loss of $30.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 included net non-cash adjustments of $5.9 million, which consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $5.2 million. Net loss of $26.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 included non-cash adjustments of $5.3 million, primarily related to $4.6 million in stock-based compensation. The primary use of cash from operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was to fund the ongoing clinical studies , product development activities , and NDA preparation activities related to ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID . Net cash provided by investing activities was $36.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $8.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was a result of $37.7 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities offset by purchases of $1.2 million of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was a result of purchases of $18.4 million of available-for-sale securities and $0.4 million of property and equipment , offset by $10.1 million of maturities of available-for-sale securities . Net cash provided by financing activities was $64.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 , compared to $9.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . In the period ended June 30, 2016 , we received net cash proceeds of $61.8 million related to the sale of common stock under a follow-on public offering, compared to the same period in the prior year in which we received $8.5 million in net cash proceeds related to the sale of common stock under a controlled equity offering. In the six months ended June 30, 2016 , we received cash proceeds of $2.4 million related to the exercise of stock options and purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan , compared to the same period in the prior year, in which we received $0.8 million related to the exercise of stock options and purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan . Off-balance sheet arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. 26 Contractual obligations Our future contractual obligations at June 30, 2016, were not materially different than at December 31, 2015. 27ITEM 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in thousands, except share and per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1.DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") is a pharmaceutical company that is developing new medicines to improve the daily lives of those affected by chronic neurologic disorders. Approximately 36 million people in the United States suffer from chronic neurologic disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis, and epilepsy. The Company has pioneered a platform based on an understanding of time dependent biologic effects of disease activity and drug response to achieve symptomatic relief without additional tolerability issues. The Company has developed a portfolio of chrono-synchronous therapies to potentially address chronic neurologic disorders. The Company's first proprietary product candidate is ADS-5102, a chrono-synchronous amantadine therapy, for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with PD. The Company submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for ADS-5102 in October 2016. The FDA has designated that LID in patients with PD is an orphan disease. There are currently no approved drugs in the United States or Europe for the treatment of LID in PD. In addition, the Company contributed to the development of two medicines, which have been exclusively licensed to Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc: Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules; and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules. In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of its common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million , net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on November15, 2000. The Company's headquarters and operations are located in Emeryville, California. The Company has four insignificant subsidiaries. 2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The financial statements include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that the Company believes are necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any other future period and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2015 , included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Liquidity and Financial Condition To date, nearly all of the Company's resources have been dedicated to the research and development of its products.The Company has not generated any commercial revenue from the sale of its products, and does not anticipate the generation of any commercial product revenue until it receives the necessary regulatory approval to launch one of its products. Based upon the current status of, and plans for, its product development, the Company believes that the existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $145.9 million as of September30, 2016 will be adequate to satisfy the Company's capital needs through at least the next twelve months. However, the process of developing and commercializing products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing arrangements, as well as regulatory approvals. These activities, together with the Company's general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in significant operating losses until the commercialization of the Company's products or license agreements generate sufficient revenue to offsetexpenses. While the Company had net income during 2014 and 2013, it has not generated any commercial revenue from sales of its products. Under its license agreement with Forest, the Company received the final milestone payment in 2014, and is not entitled to receive any royalties for sales of Namzaric until mid-2020 and Namenda XR until mid-2018. To 7 achieve sustained profitability, the Company, alone or with others, must successfully develop its product candidates, obtain required regulatory approvals, and successfully manufacture and market its products. Use of Estimates The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, fair value of assets and liabilities, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Forward Stock Split In March2014, the Board of Directors of the Company and stockholders approved a forward stock split of the Company's common and preferred stock. As a result, common and preferred stock, stock options and warrants to purchase common and preferred stock were adjusted in the ratio of 2 :1, effective March24, 2014. All common and preferred shares and per share amounts presented in these condensed consolidated financial statements for all periods have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 forward stock split. No fractional shares were issued. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all four of the following criteria have been met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii)the fee is fixed or determinable and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue under license arrangements is recognized based on the performance requirements of the contract. Determinations of whether persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and whether delivery has occurred or services have been rendered are based on management's judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fees charged for deliverables and the collectability of those fees. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine that these criteria are not met for any new or modified transactions, revenue recognized could be adversely affected. The Company generates revenue from collaboration and license agreements for the development and commercialization of products. Collaboration and license agreements may include non-refundable upfront license fees, partial or complete reimbursement of research and development costs, contingent consideration payments based on the achievement of defined objectives, and royalties on sales of commercialized products. The Company's performance obligations under the collaboration and license agreements may include the license or transfer of intellectual property rights, obligations to provide research and development services and related materials, and obligations to participate on certain development and/or commercialization committees with the partners. For revenue agreements with multiple-element arrangements, the Company allocates revenue to each non-contingent element based on the relative-selling-price of each element in an arrangement. When applying the relative-selling-price method, the Company determines the selling price for each deliverable using the following estimation hierarchy: (i)vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the deliverable, if it exists, (ii)third-party evidence of selling price, if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available or (iii)the vendor's best estimate of selling price, if neither vendor-specific nor third-party evidence is available. Revenue allocated is then recognized when the four basic revenue recognition criteria, mentioned above, are met for each element. The Company recognizes payments that are contingent upon achievement of a substantive milestone in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Milestones are defined as events that can only be achieved based on the Company's performance and there is substantive uncertainty about whether the event will be achieved at the inception of the arrangement. Events that are contingent only on the passage of time or only on counterparty performance are not considered milestones subject to this guidance. Further, the amounts received must relate solely to prior performance, be reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms within the agreement and commensurate with the Company's performance to achieve the milestone after commencement of the agreement. Amounts related to research and development funding and full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are recognized as the related services or activities are performed, in accordance with the contract terms. 8 Clinical Trial Accruals The Company's clinical trial accruals are based on estimates of patient enrollment and related costs at clinical investigator sites as well as estimates for the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and clinical research organizations ("CROs") that conduct and manage clinical trials on the Company's behalf. The Company estimates clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company obtains the reported level of patient enrollment at each site and estimates the time period over which services will be performed and activity expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenses include salaries and related compensation, contractor and consultant fees, external clinical trial expenses performed by contract research organizations ("CRO"), licensing fees, acquired intellectual property with no alternative future use, and facility and administrative expense allocations. In addition, the Company funds R&D at research institutions under agreements that are generally cancelable at its option. Research costs typically consist of applied research and preclinical and toxicology work. Pharmaceutical manufacturing development costs consist of product formulation, chemical analysis, and the transfer and scale-up of manufacturing at the Company's contract manufacturers. Clinical development costs include the costs of Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 clinical trials. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses. The Company accrues costs for clinical trial activities performed by contract research organizations and other third parties based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each study as provided by the CRO. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness by the Company'sinternal clinical personnel, and the Company aims to match the accrual to actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities. The Company monitors patient enrollment levels and related activities using available information; however, if the Company underestimates activity levels associated with various studies at a given point in time, the Company could be required to record significant additional R&D expenses in future periods when the actual activity level becomes known. The Company charges all such costs to R&D expenses. Non-refundable advance payments are capitalized and expensed as the related goods are delivered or services are performed. Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Common stock equivalents are options granted under the Company's stock awards plans and are calculated under the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares from unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units are excluded from the computation when there is a loss as their effect is anti-dilutive, or if the exercise price of such options is greater than the average market price of the stock for the period. The Company incurred net losses for all periods presented and there were no reconciling items for potentially dilutive securities. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 , approximately 5,523,000 and 5,535,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 , approximately 5,381,000 and 5,206,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of stock options granted to employees and directors and for employee stock purchase plan shares by estimating the fair value of stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of restricted stock units granted to employees based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock-based awards are recognized and amortized over the applicable vesting period. All stock options awarded to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, as calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Stock 9 options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation at each reporting date as the underlying equity instruments vest. In order to estimate the value of share-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes model, which requires the use of certain subjective assumptions. The most significant subjective assumptions are management's estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from any of these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company's results of operations could be materially impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amendment in this ASU provides guidance on the revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The core principle of this update provides guidance to identify the performance obligations under the contract(s) with a customer and how to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. It further provides guidance to recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date of this standard to 2018 for public companies, with an option that would permit companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date of 2017. Early adoption prior to the original effective date is not permitted. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB has issued several amendments which clarify certain points, including ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting , and ASU 201-16, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effects of the standards on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . This ASU provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a Company's ability to continue as a going concern and about related footnote disclosures. For each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this update are effective for annual periods ending after December15, 2016, and for interim periods within annual periods beginning after December15, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The effects of this update on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . Under ASU 2015-17, a reporting entity is required to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. Current guidance requiring the offsetting of deferred tax assets and liabilities of a tax-paying component of an entity and presentation as a single noncurrent amount is not affected. This ASU is effective for public business entities issuing financial statements for the annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. Entities may apply the update prospectively to all deferred tax assets and liabilities and taxes, or retrospectively for all periods presented. The effects of this update on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . The authoritative guidance significantly amends the current accounting for leases. Under the new provisions, all lessees will report a right-of-use asset and a liability for the obligation to make payments for all leases with the exception of those leases with a term of 12 months or less.All other leases will fall into one of two categories: (i) a financing lease or (ii) an operating lease. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged with the exception that no leases entered into after the effective date will be classified as leveraged leases. For sale leaseback transactions, a sale will only be recognized if the criteria in the new revenue recognition standard are met. For public business entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods thereafter.Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation .The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification 10 of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The effects of this update on the Company's consolidated financial statements are not expected to be material. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. The new guidance changes the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS In accordance with ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, the Company determines the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level 1 inputs, which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 inputs, which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For available-for-sale securities, the Company reviews trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable market data; and Level 3 inputs, which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation. The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities which require fair value measurement on a recurring basis (in thousands): 11 Money market funds are highly liquid investments and are actively traded. The pricing information on these investment instruments are readily available and can be independently validated as of the measurement date. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. The Company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of each measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or these inputs have been derived from observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There were no transfers to or from Level 1 and Level 2 during the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 . 4.INVESTMENTS The Company's investments consist of corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes classified as available-for-sale securities. The Company limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution, maturity, and investment type. To mitigate credit risk, the Company invests in investment grade corporate debt and United States Treasury notes. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and shown separately as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive loss to other income (expense) on the condensed consolidated statements of operations when incurred. The Company may pay a premium or receive a discount upon the purchase of available-for-sale securities. Interest earned and gains realized on available-for-sale securities and amortization of discounts received and accretion of premiums paid on the purchase of available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The following table is a summary of amortized cost, unrealized gain and loss, and the fair value of available-for-sale securities as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 (in thousands): 12 Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.3 million and $0.2 million respectively, as of September30, 2016 . Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.4 million and $36,000 , respectively, as of December31, 2015 . The Company has not incurred any realized gains or losses on investments for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 . Investments are classified as short-term or long-term depending on the underlying investment's maturity date. Long-term investments held by the Company have a maturity date range of greater than 12 months and a maximum of 17 months as of September30, 2016 . 5.LICENSE AGREEMENTS In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license, with right to sublicense, certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. In connection with these rights, Forest markets and sells Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. Pursuant to the agreement, Forest made an upfront payment of $65.0 million . The Company earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones. Under the agreement, external costs incurred related to the prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights are reimbursable.For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , reimbursed expenses amounting to $2.4 million are reflected as a reduction to general andadministrative, net. The Company is entitled to receive royalties on net sales in the United States by Forest, its affiliates, or any of its sublicensees of controlled-release versions of memantine products covered by the terms of the license agreement. Beginning in May 2020, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States. Beginning in June 2018, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to fixed-dose memantine-donepezil products, including Namzaric, continues until the later of (i) 15 years after the commercial launch of the first fixed-dose memantine-donepezil product by Forest in the United States or (ii) the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents for which Forest obtained rights from the Company covering such product. Forest's obligation to pay royalties with respect to Namenda XR continues until the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents covering such products. However, Forest's obligation to pay royalties for any product covered by the license is eliminated in any quarter where there is significant competition from generics. 6.WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK In conjunction with various financings between 2002 and 2012, the Company issued warrants to purchase 758,994 shares of convertible preferred stock and 127,780 shares of common stock. The relative fair value of these warrants was determined using the Black-Scholes model and was amortized to interest expense over the term of each loan, unless subsequently modified. Immediately prior to the completion of the Company's IPO in 2014, 206,162 of the warrants to purchase common stock were either exercised for cash or automatically net exercised for a total issuance of 199,837 shares of common stock, pursuant to the terms of the warrants. In July 2015, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,116 shares of common stock were exercised in a cashless exercise, resulting in the issuance of 3,484 shares of common stock. As of both September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , there were no warrants to purchase common stock outstanding. 7.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments The Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet of office space in Emeryville, California under an operating lease that expires April 30, 2020. The lease provides for periods of escalating rent. The total cash payments over the life of the lease are divided by the total number of months in the lease period and the average rent is charged to expense each month during the lease period. 13 As of September30, 2016 , future minimum lease payments under the non-cancelable facility operating leasewere as follows (in thousands): Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations and warranties and provide for general indemnifications. The Company's exposure under these agreements is unknown, because it involves claims that may be made against the Company in the future, but have not yet been made. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Indemnification In accordance with the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, the Company has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they are serving in such capacity. There have been no claims to date, and the Company has a directors and officers liability insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any amounts paid for future claims. Litigation In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license to certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. Under the terms of that license agreement, Forest has the right to enforce such intellectual property rights which are related to its right to market and sell Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. The Company has a right to participate in, but not control, such enforcement actions by Forest. As of the date of this filing, several companies have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in June 2018. In the notices, these companies allege that the patents associated with Namenda XR, some of which are owned by Forest or licensed by Forest from Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and others of which are owned by the Company and licensed by the Company exclusively to Forest in the United States, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the companies' manufacture, use, or sale of generic versions of Namenda XR. The Company, Forest, Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH (together Merz) filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the relevant patents against all of these companies. The parties are collectively seeking judgment that (i) the defendants have infringed the patents at issue, (ii) the effective date of any approval of the defendants' ANDAs shall not be earlier than the expiration date of the last to expire of the relevant patents, including any extensions or exclusivities, (iii) the defendants be enjoined from commercially manufacturing, using, offering for sale, or selling in the United States, or importing into the United States, any products that infringe or induce or contribute to the infringement of the patents at issue prior to the expiration date of the last to expire of the patents, including extensions and exclusivities, and (iv) the Company, Forest, and Merz be awarded monetary relief, in addition to any attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses relating to the actions. The Company and Forest have entered into a series of settlement agreements with the Namenda XR ANDA filers, except for one defendant with respect to the certain patents subject to the Markman ruling described below. Entry dates for generic Namenda XR are governed by the settlement agreements in that action. Subject to those agreements, the earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namenda XR is January 31, 2020 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namenda XR beginning on January 31, 2021. 14 In January 2016, the Delaware District Court issued a claim construction (Markman) ruling in the Namenda XR litigation that includes findings of indefiniteness as to certain claim terms in the asserted patents licensed by the Company to Forest. On July 26, 2016, the District Court issued a final judgment of invalidity on those patents based upon the Markman ruling. The Company and Forest filed the notice of appeal of that final judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeal is ongoing. Additionally, as of the date of this filing, a number of companies have submitted ANDAs requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric, on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in May 2020. The Company and Forest have begun to file lawsuits alleging infringement of the relevant patents against Namzaric ANDA filers, who are seeking to launch generic versions of Namzaric, in the same court as heard the Namenda XR litigation.As of the date of this filing, the Company and Forest have settled with all active defendants, including the first filers on all the available dosage forms of Namzaric, granting a license to market the first generic versions of Namzaric on January 1, 2025 subject to the settlement agreements. The Company and Forest will continue to enforce the patents associated with Namzaric. From time to time, the Company may be party to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims in the ordinary course of its business. Other than the matters described above, the Company is not presently a party to any material legal proceedings. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Common Stock The amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. Common stockholders are entitled to dividends as and when declared by the board of directors, subject to the rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights as to dividends. There have been no dividends declared to date. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. The Company has classified payments received for all unvested shares of common stock issued upon the early exercise of stock options as employee deposits (a liability) as these options are not considered to be substantively exercised until vested. At September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , zero and 3,000 shares of common stock, respectively, from early exercised options were unvested. Controlled Equity Offering On June 1, 2015, the Company entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement"), with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. ("Cantor"), as sales agent, pursuant to which the Company may, at its discretion, issue and sell common stock from time to time with a value of up to a maximum of $25.0 million in an at-the-market offering. All sales of shares have been made pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on June 1, 2015. Cantor has acted as sole sales agent for any sales made under the Sales Agreement for a 3% commission on gross proceeds.The common stock has been sold at prevailing market prices at the time of the sale, and, as a result, prices have varied. Unless otherwise terminated earlier, the Sales Agreement continues to be in effect until all shares available under the Sales Agreement have been sold. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , there were no additional shares sold under the Sales Agreement. As of September30, 2016 , the Company had sold a total of 509,741 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $20.04 for net proceeds of $9.7 million . Public Offering On January 6, 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million , net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. 15 Shares reserved for Future Issuance Shares of Company's common stock reserved for future issuance are as follows: 9.STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock Compensation Plans In 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted, and in March 2014 the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective on the completion of the IPO. The number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year for a period of up to 10 years , commencing on the first day of the fiscal year following 2014, in an amount equal to 4% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on the last day of the preceding fiscal year, or a lesser number of shares as determined by the Company's board of directors. For 2016 , the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Plan increased by 739,708 shares of common stock. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Inducement Plan (the "Inducement Plan") under which 450,000 shares of the Company's common stock were made available for issuance. Options granted under the Inducement Plan may have terms of up to ten years . Consistent with the 2014 Plan, options granted generally vest over four years and vest at a rate of 25% upon the first anniversary of the issuance date and 1/48thper month thereafter. Restricted stock units granted vest at a rate of 25% per year over four years. The Inducement Plan was adopted by the board of directors without stockholder approval pursuant to Rule 5635(c)(4) of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. The stock option and related activity under all of the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: 16 The restricted stock unit and related activity under the Company's stock compensation plans is summarized as follows: Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's board of directors adopted and, in March 2014, the Company's stockholders approved, the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective on the completion of the Company's IPO. Beginning January 1, 2015 and continuing through and including January 1, 2024, the amount of common stock reserved for issuance under the ESPP will increase annually on that date by the lesser of (i) one percent ( 1% ) of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on such December 31, (ii) 520,000 shares of common stock, or (iii) a number of shares as determined by the board of directors prior to the beginning of each year, which shall be the lesser of (i) or (ii) above. For 2016 , the common stock available for issuance under the ESPP increased by 184,927 shares of common stock. Stock-Based Compensation The following table reflects stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively (in thousands): As of September30, 2016 , there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options of approximately $21.0 million . This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.6 years .As of September30, 2016 , there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSU's of approximately $2.6 million . This cost is expected to be recognized over a period of 3.6 years . Non-employee Stock-Based Compensation During the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 , the Company granted options to purchase 12,600 shares of common stock to a member of the Company's board of directors in exchange for consulting services to be rendered. During the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 , the Company did not grant options to purchase common stock to consultants. 17 ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk factors." Overview We are a pharmaceutical company that is developing new medicines to improve the daily lives of those affected by chronic neurologic disorders. Approximately 36 million people in the United States suffer from chronic neurologic disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis, and epilepsy. We have pioneered a platform based on an understanding of time dependent biologic effects of disease activity and drug response to achieve symptomatic relief without additional tolerability issues. We have developed a portfolio of chrono-synchronous therapies to potentially address chronic neurologic disorders. Our first proprietary product candidate is ADS-5102, a chrono-synchronous amantadine therapy, for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with PD. We submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for ADS-5102 in October 2016. The FDA has designated that LID in patients with PD is an orphan disease. There are currently no approved drugs in the United States or Europe for the treatment of LID in PD. The ADS-5102 LID NDA is supported by efficacy and safety data compiled from our comprehensive registration program, which was designed to evaluate ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID in patients with PD. The Phase 3 clinical program included three placebo-controlled trials: EASED, EASE LID and EASE LID 3. The three trials enrolled a total of 286 patients, of whom 121 patients received a 340 mg dose of ADS-5102 once daily at bedtime. Both Phase 3 trials met their primary and key secondary endpoints. In addition, the NDA is supported by data from an open-label safety study known as EASE LID 2 for patients from EASED, EASE LID and EASE LID 3 as well as LID patients who have undergone deep brain stimulation. The EASE LID 2 trial is ongoing and patients are being followed for up to two years. We are also exploring the utility of ADS-5102 for the treatment of walking impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis. We have completed a positive Phase 2 proof-of-concept study in these patients. The Phase 2 study evaluated ADS-5102 dosed at 340 mg once daily at bedtime and enrolled MS patients with impaired walking speed. A key walking assessment was the timed 25-foot walk (T25FW) test, a well-established outcome measure that has been used as a basis for product approval in the United States and Europe. Key secondary outcome measures included assessments of walking performance. Other outcome measures included assessments of other MS-related symptoms. We plan to pursue a pivotal registration program for this indication. The second product candidate is ADS-4101, an extended-release version of an FDA-approved single-agent compound for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures). We anticipate initiating a Phase 1 clinical study of ADS-4101 for partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy in 2016. Additionally, through our license to Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest Laboratories" or "Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc, our portfolio includes two medicines commercially available in the United States for indications relating to Alzheimer's disease: Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules. Adamas is eligible to receive royalties on sales of Namenda XR and Namzaric beginning in June of 2018 and May of 2020, respectively. Our business strategy is to continue to discover, develop and commercializenew treatment solutions for patients independently or in collaboration with partners. 18 Financial operations overview Summary Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from license, milestone, and development revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. We have not generated any commercial product revenue. As of September30, 2016 , we had an accumulated deficit of $107.2 million . Although we reported net income in each of the years ended December31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, this was primarily due to the recognition of revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Forest. There are no further milestone payments to be earned under our license agreement with Forest. We cannot assure you that we will receive additional license revenue in the future. We incurred significant losses in the nine months ended September30, 2016 , in 2015, and prior to 2012, and expect to incur significant and increasing losses in the foreseeable future as we advance our product candidates into later stages of development and, if approved, commercialization. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue to advance our product candidates through clinical development. In addition, we plan to commercialize ADS-5102, if approved, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates by developing a commercial organization, including either our own sales force or a contract sales organization ("CSO"), targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, or possibly through partnership agreements with pharmaceutical companies. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses incurred or when, or if, we will be able to achieve sustained profitability. Under our agreement with Forest, beginning in May2020, we are entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-teens for sales of Namzaric in the United States. In addition, we are also entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digits from Forest for sales of Namenda XR in the United States beginning in June2018; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $65.0million in 2012, which we recognized on a straight-line basis from November2012 to February2013. We also earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Forest of certain development and regulatory milestones, which we recognized in 2013 and 2014. Prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, in April2014, we had raised an aggregate of approximately $87.2million through the sale of convertible preferred stock and $1.0 million through the exercise of preferred stock warrants. In 2014, we issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of common stock in our IPO and received net proceeds of approximately $42.6 million, which included partial exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares and after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of our IPO, all convertible preferred stock converted into common stock. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million . As of September30, 2016 , we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. In January 2016, we raised $61.8 million from the sale of 2,875,000 shares of common stock in a follow-on public offering. As of September30, 2016 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities of $145.9 million . Revenue We have not generated any revenue from commercial product sales to date. Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from non-refundable upfront license payments, milestone payments, reimbursements for research and development expenses and full-time equivalents assigned under our license agreement with Forest, and to a lesser degree reimbursement for research and development expenses from NIH grants and government contracts. We do not expect to recognize any further milestone payments under our license agreement with Forest, while reimbursements for full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are expected to remain at modest levels in future periods. Beginning in May2020, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Forest for sales of Namzaric in the United States and in June2018, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. We were also awarded a continuation of an NIH grant for $1.0 million in August2014 that terminated in July 2016, which we administered, but conducted through subcontractors. 19 Research and development expenses Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our wholly-owned product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our agreement with Forest. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses consist of: fees paid to clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, consultants, and vendors, including clinical research organizations, or CROs, in conjunction with implementing, conducting, and monitoring our clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating clinical trial data, including all related fees, such as for investigator grants, patient screening fees, laboratory work, and statistical compilation and analysis; expenses related to production of clinical supplies, including fees paid to contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs; expenses related to compliance with regulatory requirements; other consulting fees paid to third parties; and employee-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): The program-specific expenses summarized in the table above include costs directly attributable to our product candidates. Other research and development expenses include costs for early stage programs and costs not allocated to a specific program. We allocate research and development salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, and indirect costs to our product candidates on a program-specific basis, and we include these costs in the program-specific expenses. We have reallocated certain other research and development expenses to program-specific expenses for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 in order to consistently classify our product candidate expenses between periods. The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. We anticipate incurring significant research and development expenses as we continue our clinical trials for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID and walking impairment associated with MS, ADS-4101 for treatment of epilepsy, and potentially initiate additional clinical-stage programs in more indications or for future product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA approval is costly and time consuming. We consider the active management and development of our clinical pipeline to be crucial to our long-term success. The actual probability of success for each product candidate and clinical program may be affected by a variety of factors including but not limited to the quality of the product candidate, early clinical data, investment in the program, competition, manufacturing capability, and commercial viability. Furthermore, in the past we have entered into licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or collaborations in the future. In situations in which third parties have control over the clinical development of a product candidate, the estimated completion dates are largely under the control of such third parties and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates, if any, will be subject to future licensing or collaboration arrangements or how such arrangements would affect our development plans or capital requirements. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. 20 General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net consist primarily of personnel and related benefit costs, facilities, professional services, insurance, and public company related expenses, reduced by reimbursement from Forest for external costs related to supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights under our license agreement. We anticipate our general and administrative expenses will increase as we continue to establish our commercial capabilities and support our potentially commercial-stage programs. If ADS-5102 is approved by the FDA, we plan to market and sell through our own sales force or through a CSO, targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, or possibly through distribution agreements and license agreements with pharmaceutical companies. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest received on our investments. Critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant and material changes in our critical accounting policies during the nine months ended September30, 2016 , as compared to those disclosed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . Results of operations Comparison of the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue Revenue for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 was $0.1 million and $0.5 million , respectively, compared to $0.8 million and $1.4 million , respectively, for the same periods in the prior year. Revenue for both periods in 2016 and 2015 was primarily related to reimbursement of certain expenses as provided for in our license agreement with Forest, as well as from government contracts. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses decreased by $2.5 million , or 25% to $7.4 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 , compared to the three months ended September30, 2015 . The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily due to the conclusion of two Phase 3 clinical trials for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID.The decrease due to the conclusion of the two Phase 3 clinical trials was partially offset by increased expenses to support the preparation of the new drug application for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, in addition to increased expenses related to 21 preclinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures). Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was $0.7 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Research and development expenses decreased by $2.0 million , or 8% to $24.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 from $26.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . The decrease in research and development expenses was due to the conclusion of two Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of LID. The decrease was offset by increasedefforts to support the preparation of the new drug application for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, in addition to increased expenses related to preclinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of epilepsy (partial onset seizures) in the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was $2.1 million and $2.3 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $1.5 million , or 27% , to $7.3 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 from $5.8 million for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was due primarily to increased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercial launch of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will increase through the remaining quarter of 2016, reflecting increased investment in pre-commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $1.9 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $5.5 million , or 33% , to $22.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 from $16.6 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercial launch of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $5.6 million and $4.9 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest and other income, net Interest and other income, net, for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 was $0.2 million and $0.6 million , respectively, compared to $0.1 million and $0.3 million for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 . Net interest income is primarily due to interest income earned on investments. Liquidity, capital resources and plan of operation We have funded our operations primarily through $160.0 million of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, $88.2 million sales of convertible preferred stock and warrants, and $114.1 million pursuant to sales of our common stock. In April 2014, we completed our IPO and raised net proceeds of $42.6 million, including the underwriters' partial exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. On June1, 2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million. As of September30, 2016 , we had issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million under the Sales Agreement. On January 6, 2016, we completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. We incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since inception through the year ended December31, 2011. Although we recognized a profit and positive cash flow in 2014, 2013, and 2012 as a result of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Forest, we received our final milestone payment from Forest in December2014.We do not currently receive any royalties from Forest, nor do we have other license agreements or collaborations from which we might expect milestone or royalty revenue. Consequently, we expect to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. Our principal sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which totaled $145.9 million as of September30, 2016 . 22 We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including operations related to the continued development of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we will not achieve the progress that we expect, because the actual costs and timing of drug development, particularly clinical studies, and regulatory approvals are difficult to predict, subject to substantial risks and delays, and often vary depending on the particular indication and development strategy. We expect to continue significant spending in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, particularly for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, as well as other indications. In order to continue these activities, we may decide to raise additional funds through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, asset sales, and other marketing and distribution arrangements. Sufficient additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of, or put on hold our clinical studies, research and development programs, or commercialization efforts. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Net cash used in operating activities was $38.4 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to $34.9 million for the same period in the prior year. Net loss of $45.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 included net non-cash adjustments of $8.0 million , which consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $7.8 million . Net loss of $41.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 included non-cash adjustments of $8.4 million , primarily related to $7.2 million in stock-based compensation. The primary use of cash from operating activities for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was to fund the ongoing clinical studies, product development activities, and NDA preparation activities related to ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID. Net cash used in investing activities was $50.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $36,000 for the same period in the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was a result of $48.7 million in net purchases of available-for-sale securities as a result of investing the cash from our follow-on public offering that occurred in January 2016, and $1.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2015 was a result of $1.2 million in net maturities of available-for-sale securities, offset by $1.1 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $65.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 , compared to $10.5 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . In the period ended September30, 2016 , we received net cash proceeds of $61.8 million related to the sale of common stock under a follow-on public offering, compared to the same period in the prior year in which we received $9.7 million in net cash proceeds related to the sale of common stock under a controlled equity offering. In the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we received cash proceeds of $3.2 million related to the exercise of stock optionsand purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, compared to $0.9 million in the same period in the prior year. Off-balance sheet arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Contractual obligations Our future contractual obligations at September30, 2016 , were not materially different than at December31, 2015 . 23ITEM 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in thousands, except share and per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1.DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") is a pharmaceutical company that discovers and develops chrono-synchronous therapies to improve the daily lives of people affected by chronic neurologic disorders. The Company pioneered a platform to develop medicines for chronic neurologic disorders based upon an understanding of time-dependent biologic processes responsible for disease activity and drug response. The Company calls these medicines chrono-synchronous therapies. The Company's portfolio includes: ADS-5102 : an amantadine therapy with a U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") accepted New Drug Application ("NDA") for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID") in patients with Parkinson's disease. LID is a form of dyskinesia (abnormality or impairment of voluntary movement) associated with levodopa, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease. The NDA for ADS-5102 in LID has a Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA") date, or deadline by which the FDA must review the NDA, of August 24, 2017, and, if approved, the Company plans to commercialize ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease in 2017. ADS-4101 : a lacosamide therapy in clinical development for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy. The active ingredient in ADS-4101 is lacosamide, an anti-epileptic previously approved by the FDA, which is currently marketed by UCB as VIMPAT (lacosamide). Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules and Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules: two commercially available drugs currently marketed by Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc (collectively, "Allergan") in the United States for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of Namenda XR and Namzaric beginning in June of 2018 and May of 2020, respectively. In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of its common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million , net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on November15, 2000. The Company's headquarters and operations are located in Emeryville, California. The Company has four insignificant subsidiaries. 2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The financial statements include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that the Company believes are necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2016 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any other future period and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2016 , included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. 7 Use of Estimates The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, fair value of assets and liabilities, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Liquidity and Financial Condition To date, a substantial majority of the Company's resources have been dedicated to the research and development of its products.The Company has not generated any commercial revenue from the sale of its products, and does not anticipate the generation of any commercial product revenue until it receives the necessary regulatory approval to launch one of its products. Based upon the current status of, and plans for, its product development and commercialization, the Company believes that the existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $122.2 million as of March31, 2017 will be adequate to satisfy the Company's capital needs through at least the next twelve months from the issuance of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. However, the process of developing and commercializing products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing arrangements, as well as regulatory approvals. These activities, together with the Company's general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in significant operating losses until the commercialization of the Company's products or license agreements generate sufficient revenue to offsetexpenses. While the Company had net income during 2014, 2013, and 2012, it has not generated any commercial revenue from sales of its products. Under its license agreement with Allergan, the Company received the final milestone payment in 2014, and is not entitled to receive any royalties for net sales of Namzaric until mid-2020 and Namenda XR until mid-2018. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company, alone or with others, must successfully develop its product candidates, obtain required regulatory approvals, and successfully manufacture and market its products. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all four of the following criteria have been met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii)the fee is fixed or determinable, and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue under license arrangements is recognized based on the performance requirements of the contract. Determinations of whether persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and whether delivery has occurred or services have been rendered are based on management's judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fees charged for deliverables and the collectability of those fees. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine that these criteria are not met for any new or modified transactions, revenue recognized could be adversely affected. The Company generates revenue from collaboration and license agreements for the development and commercialization of products. Collaboration and license agreements may include non-refundable upfront license fees, partial or complete reimbursement of research and development costs, contingent consideration payments based on the achievement of defined objectives, and royalties on sales of commercialized products. The Company's performance obligations under the collaboration and license agreements may include the license or transfer of intellectual property rights, obligations to provide research and development services and related materials, and obligations to participate on certain development and/or commercialization committees with the partners. For revenue agreements with multiple-element arrangements, the Company allocates revenue to each non-contingent element based on the relative-selling-price of each element in an arrangement. When applying the relative-selling-price method, the Company determines the selling price for each deliverable using the following estimation hierarchy: (i)vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the deliverable, if it exists, (ii)third-party evidence of selling price, if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available, or (iii)the vendor's best estimate of selling price, if neither vendor-specific nor third-party evidence is available. Revenue allocated is then recognized when the four basic revenue recognition criteria, mentioned above, are met for each element. 8 The Company recognizes payments that are contingent upon achievement of a substantive milestone in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Milestones are defined as events that can only be achieved based on the Company's performance and there is substantive uncertainty about whether the event will be achieved at the inception of the arrangement. Events that are contingent only on the passage of time or only on counterparty performance are not considered milestones subject to this guidance. Further, the amounts received must relate solely to prior performance, be reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms within the agreement and commensurate with the Company's performance to achieve the milestone after commencement of the agreement. Amounts related to research and development funding and full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement are recognized as the related services or activities are performed, in accordance with the contract terms. Accounts Receivable The Company's accounts receivable balance consists of amounts due from Allergan, in accordance with the contract terms of the license agreement, for research and development funding and full-time equivalents assigned to the Allergan license agreement, as well as for reimbursement of external costs, recorded as contra-expense, associated with supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights. Clinical Trial Accruals The Company's clinical trial accruals are based on estimates of patient enrollment and related costs at clinical investigator sites as well as estimates for the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and contract research organizations ("CROs") that conduct and manage clinical trials on the Company's behalf. The Company estimates clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and CROs that conduct and manage clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company obtains the reported level of patient enrollment at each site and estimates the time period over which services are to be performed and activity expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenses include salaries and related compensation, contractor and consultant fees, external clinical trial expenses performed by CROs, licensing fees, acquired intellectual property with no alternative future use, and facility and administrative expense allocations. In addition, the Company funds R&D at research institutions under agreements that are generally cancelable at its option. Research costs typically consist of applied research and preclinical and toxicology work. Pharmaceutical manufacturing development costs consist of product formulation, chemical analysis, and the transfer and scale-up of manufacturing at facilities operated by the Company's contract manufacturers. Clinical development costs include the costs of Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 clinical trials. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses. The Company accrues costs for clinical trial activities performed by contract research organizations and other third parties based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each study as provided by the CRO. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness by the Company'sinternal clinical personnel, and the Company aims to match the accrual to actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities. The Company monitors patient enrollment levels and related activities using available information; however, if the Company underestimates activity levels associated with various studies at a given point in time, the Company could be required to record significant additional R&D expenses in future periods when the actual activity level becomes known. The Company charges all such costs to R&D expenses. Non-refundable advance payments are capitalized and expensed as the related goods are delivered or services are performed. Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Common stock equivalents are options granted under the 9 Company's stock awards plans and are calculated under the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares from unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units are excluded from the computation when there is a loss as their effect is anti-dilutive, or if the exercise price of such options is greater than the average market price of the stock for the period. The Company incurred net losses for all periods presented and there were no reconciling items for potentially dilutive securities. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, approximately 5,688,000 and 5,370,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of stock options granted to employees and directors and for employee stock purchase plan shares by estimating the fair value of stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of restricted stock units granted to employees based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock-based awards are recognized and amortized over the applicable vesting period. All stock options awarded to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, as calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation at each reporting date as the underlying equity instruments vest. In order to estimate the value of share-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes model, which requires the use of certain subjective assumptions. The most significant subjective assumptions are management's estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from any of these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company's results of operations could be materially impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amendment in this ASU provides guidance on the revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The core principle of this update provides guidance to identify the performance obligations under the contract(s) with a customer and how to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. It further provides guidance to recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date of this standard to 2018 for public companies, with an option that would permit companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date of 2017. Early adoption prior to the original effective date is not permitted. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB has issued several amendments which clarify certain points, including ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting , ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 , Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Company plans to adopt the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the method of adoption and effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . The authoritative guidance significantly amends the current accounting for leases. Under the new provisions, all lessees will report a right-of-use asset and a liability for the obligation to make payments for all leases with the exception of those leases with a term of 12 months or less.All other leases will fall into one of two categories: (i) a financing lease or (ii) an operating lease. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged with the exception that no leases entered into after the effective date will be classified as leveraged leases. For sale leaseback transactions, a sale will only be recognized if the criteria in the new revenue recognition standard are met. For public business entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods thereafter.Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 10 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. The new guidance changes the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS In accordance with ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, the Company determines the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level 1 inputs, which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 inputs, which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For available-for-sale securities, the Company reviews trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable market data; and Level 3 inputs, which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation. The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities which require fair value measurement on a recurring basis (in thousands): Money market funds are highly liquid investments and are actively traded. The pricing information on these investment instruments are readily available and can be independently validated as of the measurement date. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 11 Corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. The Company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of each measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or these inputs have been derived from observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There were no transfers to or from Level 1 and Level 2 during the three months ended March31, 2017 . 4.INVESTMENTS The Company's investments consist of corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes classified as available-for-sale securities. The Company limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution, maturity, and investment type. To mitigate credit risk, the Company invests in investment grade corporate debt and United States Treasury notes. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and shown separately as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive loss to other income (expense) on the condensed consolidated statements of operations when incurred. The Company may pay a premium or receive a discount upon the purchase of available-for-sale securities. Interest earned and gains realized on available-for-sale securities and amortization of discounts received and accretion of premiums paid on the purchase of available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The following table is a summary of amortized cost, unrealized gain and loss, and the fair value of available-for-sale securities as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 (in thousands): Short-term and long-term investments include accrued interest of $0.4 million and $0.1 million , respectively, as of March31, 2017 . Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.3 million and $0.1 million , respectively, as of December31, 2016 . The Company has not incurred any realized gains or losses on investments for the 12 three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 . Investments are classified as short-term or long-term depending on the underlying investment's maturity date. Long-term investments held by the Company have a maturity date range of greater than 12 months and a maximum of 14 months as of March31, 2017 . 5.LICENSE AGREEMENTS In November 2012, the Company granted Allergan an exclusive license, with right to sublicense, certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. In connection with these rights, Allergan markets and sells Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. Pursuant to the agreement, Allergan made an upfront payment of $65.0 million . The Company earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Allergan of certain development and regulatory milestones. Under the agreement, external costs incurred related to the prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights are reimbursable.For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , reimbursed expenses amounting to zero and $0.3 million , respectively, are reflected as a reduction to general andadministrative, net. In addition, the Company may earn tiered royalty payments based on future net sales of Namzaric and Namenda XR . The Company is entitled to receive royalties on net sales in the United States by Allergan, its affiliates, or any of its sublicensees of controlled-release versions of memantine products covered by the terms of the license agreement. Beginning in May 2020, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Allergan for sales of Namzaric in the United States. Beginning in June 2018, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. Allergan's obligation to pay royalties with respect to fixed-dose memantine-donepezil products, including Namzaric , continues until the later of (i) 15 years after the commercial launch of the first fixed-dose memantine-donepezil product by Allergan in the United States or (ii) the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents for which Allergan obtained rights from the Company covering such product. Allergan's obligation to pay royalties with respect to Namenda XR continues until the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents covering such products. However, Allergan's obligation to pay royalties for any product covered by the license is eliminated in any quarter where there is significant competition from generics. 6.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments The Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet of office space in Emeryville, California under an operating lease that expires April 30, 2020. The lease provides for periods of escalating rent. The total cash payments over the life of the lease are divided by the total number of months in the lease period and the average rent is charged to expense each month during the lease period. As of March31, 2017 , future minimum lease payments under the non-cancelable facility operating leasewere as follows (in thousands): Purchase Commitments The Company enters into contracts in the normal course of business that include, among others, arrangements with CROs for clinical trials, vendors for pre-clinical research, and vendors for clinical supply manufacturing. These 13 contracts generally provide for termination upon notice, and therefore the Company believes that its obligations under these agreements are not material. Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations and warranties and provide for general indemnifications. The Company's exposure under these agreements is unknown, because it involves claims that may be made against the Company in the future, but have not yet been made. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Indemnification In accordance with the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, the Company has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they are serving in such capacity. There have been no claims to date, and the Company has a directors and officers liability insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any amounts paid for future claims. Litigation In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license to certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. Under the terms of that license agreement, Forest has the right to enforce such intellectual property rights which are related to its right to market and sell Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. The Company has a right to participate in, but not control, such enforcement actions by Forest. As of the date of this filing, several companies have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR , on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in June 2018. In the notices, these companies allege that the patents associated with Namenda XR , some of which are owned by Forest or licensed by Forest from Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and others of which are owned by the Company and licensed by the Company exclusively to Forest in the United States, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the companies' manufacture, use, or sale of generic versions of Namenda XR . The Company, Forest, Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH (together Merz) filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the relevant patents against all of these companies except one company for which the Company and Forest recently received that company's notice that its ANDA included one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv) and are still evaluating the next steps. The Company and Forest will continue to enforce the patents associated with Namenda XR . The Company and Forest have entered into a series of settlement agreements with all Namenda XR ANDA filers, except for one recent ANDA filer and one defendant with respect to the certain patents subject to the Markman ruling described below. Entry dates for generic Namenda XR are governed by the settlement agreements in that action. Subject to those agreements, the earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namenda XR is January 31, 2020 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namenda XR beginning on January 31, 2021. In January 2016, the Delaware District Court issued a claim construction (Markman) ruling in the Namenda XR litigation that includes findings of indefiniteness as to certain claim terms in the asserted patents licensed by the Company to Forest. On July 26, 2016, the District Court issued a final judgment of invalidity on those patents based upon the Markman ruling. The Company and Forest filed the notice of appeal of that final judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeal is ongoing. If the appeal is unsuccessful, generic entry of Namenda XR could occur prior to January 31, 2020. Additionally, as of the date of this filing, a number of companies have submitted ANDAs requesting permission to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric , on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in May 2020. The Company and Forest have filed lawsuits alleging infringement of the relevant patents against Namzaric ANDA filers, who are seeking to launch generic versions of Namzaric , in the same court as heard the Namenda XR litigation.As of the date of this filing, the Company and Forest have settled with all but one of the 14 ANDA filers, including all first filers on all the available dosage forms of Namzaric , granting a license to market the first generic versions of Namzaric on January 1, 2025 subject to the settlement agreements. For the one ANDA filer that the Company and Forest have not settled with, the Company and Forest recently received that ANDA filer's notice that its ANDA included one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv) and are still evaluating the next steps. The Company and Forest will continue to enforce the patents associated with Namzaric . From time to time, the Company may be party to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims in the ordinary course of its business. Other than the matters described above, the Company is not currently party to any material legal proceedings. 7.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Common Stock The amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. Common stockholders are entitled to dividends as and when declared by the board of directors, subject to the rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights as to dividends. There have been no dividends declared to date. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. Public Offering In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million , net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. Shares reserved for Future Issuance Shares of Company's common stock reserved for future issuance are as follows: 8.STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock Compensation Plans In January 2017 , the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") automatically increased by 4% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on December31, 2016 , or 880,362 shares. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Inducement Plan (the "Inducement Plan") under which 450,000 shares of the Company's common stock were made available for issuance. In January 2017, an amendment to the Inducement Plan was approved to increase the number of shares available for issuance an additional 450,000 shares for a total of 900,000 shares. Employee Stock Purchase Plan In January 2017 , the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") automatically increased by 1% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on December31, 2016 , or 220,090 shares. 15 Stock-Based CompensationExpense The following table reflects stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 16 ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk factors." Overview We are a pharmaceutical company thatdiscovers and develops chrono-synchronous therapies to improve the daily lives of people affected by chronic neurologic disorders. Approximately 36 million people in the United States suffer from conditions such as Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, and Alzheimer's disease. Currently available medicines may lead to sub-optimal symptom control in these disorders. We pioneered a platform to develop medicines for chronic neurologic disorders based upon an understanding of time-dependent biologic processes responsible for disease activity and drug response. We call these medicines chrono-synchronous therapies. These therapies synchronize the temporal pattern of disease activity with the dynamics of drug profiles we invent without disrupting the brain's master clock, e.g. circadian rhythm. We believe the lives of patients with neurologic disorders are improved when these factors operate in unison. We identify and develop chrono-synchronous therapies for patients by listening, studying, and innovating. To that end, our aim is to enable substantial treatment effects among the existing landscape of medicines. Our portfolio includes: ADS-5102 : an amantadine therapy with a U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") accepted New Drug Application ("NDA") for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia ("LID") in patients with Parkinson's disease. LID is a form of dyskinesia associated with levodopa, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease. Over time, 90% of Parkinson's disease patients on levodopa therapy will develop alternating periods of OFF time (e.g. rigidity) and LID, as their disease progresses. LID is characterized by involuntary movements that are purposeless and unpredictable. The NDA for ADS-5102 in LID has a Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA") date, or deadline by which the FDA must review the NDA, of August 24, 2017, and, if approved, we plan to commercialize ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease in 2017. If approved, ADS-5102 will be the first and only medicine approved for the treatment of LID, and it will be the only Parkinson's disease medicine demonstrated to reduce both LID and the time when the symptoms of Parkinson's disease are present, referred to as "OFF time". In addition, we believe ADS-5102 has opportunities to provide symptomatic treatment of other hyper- and hypokinetic neurologic disorders, including but not limited to walking impairment in multiple sclerosis patients and other Parkinson's disease indications. ADS-4101 : a lacosamide therapy in clinical development for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy. The active ingredient in ADS-4101 is lacosamide, an anti-epileptic previously approved by the FDA, which is currently marketed by UCB as VIMPAT (lacosamide). Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules and Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules: two commercially available drugs currently marketed by Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc (collectively, "Allergan"), in the United States for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. We are eligible to receive royalties on sales of Namenda XR and Namzaric beginning in June of 2018 and May of 2020, respectively. Our goal is to bring products to market, which are differentiated and distinguished by our platform insights, independently or in collaboration with partners. From prior experience, we appreciate the value that commercial strategic alliances can bring to patients and Adamas stakeholders. 17 In 2017, we are focused on commercializing ADS-5102, if approved, for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease. Based on our market research, we expect ADS-5102 to be well received by physicians, patients, and payers, as there are currently no approved therapeutic treatments for LID, which is an existing Parkinson's disease treatment gap. Our research also indicates that payers recognize the substantial unmet need of patients with LID and the potentially important value proposition of ADS-5102 in LID, as well as its secondary benefit in OFF time, when the symptoms of Parkinson's disease are present. Financial operations overview Summary Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from license, milestone, and development revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan. We have not generated any commercial product revenue. As of March31, 2017 , we had an accumulated deficit of $138.2 million . Although we reported net income in each of the years ended December31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, this was primarily due to the recognition of revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan. There are no further milestone payments to be earned under our license agreement with Allergan. We incurred significant losses in the three months ended March31, 2017 , in 2016, 2015, and prior to 2012, and expect to continue to incur significant losses as we advance our product candidates into later stages of development and, if approved, commercialization. We plan to commercialize ADS-5102 for LID, if approved, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates by developing a commercial organization, including either our own sales force or a contract sales organization, targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, or possibly through partnership agreements with pharmaceutical companies. Consequently, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase as we approach a potential product commercialization of ADS-5102 for LID currently contemplated to be later in 2017. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue to advance our product candidates through clinical development. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses incurred or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Under our agreement with Allergan, beginning in May2020, we are entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-teens for net sales of Namzaric in the United States. In addition, we are also entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digits from Allergan for net sales of Namenda XR in the United States beginning in June2018; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $65.0million in 2012, which we recognized on a straight-line basis from November2012 to February2013. We also earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Allergan of certain development and regulatory milestones, which we recognized in 2013 and 2014. Prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, in April2014, we had raised an aggregate of approximately $87.2million through the sale of convertible preferred stock and $1.0 million through the exercise of preferred stock warrants. In 2014, we issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of common stock in our IPO and received net proceeds of approximately $42.6 million, which included partial exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares and after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of our IPO, all convertible preferred stock converted into common stock. In June2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we were able to issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million , which was terminated in November 2016. During the term of the agreement, we issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million . In January 2016, we raised $61.8 million from the sale of 2,875,000 shares of common stock in a follow-on public offering. As of March31, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities of $122.2 million . Revenue We have not generated any revenue from commercial product sales to date. Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from non-refundable upfront license payments, milestone payments, reimbursements for research and development expenses and full-time equivalents assigned under our license agreement with Allergan, and to a lesser degree reimbursement for research and development expenses from NIH grants and government contracts. We do not 18 expect to recognize any further milestone payments under our license agreement with Allergan, and we expect reimbursements for full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement to be inconsequential in future periods. Beginning in May2020, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Allergan for net sales of Namzaric in the United States, and in June2018 we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for net sales of Namenda XR in the United States; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. We were also awarded a continuation of an NIH grant for $1.0 million in August2014 that terminated in July 2016, which we administered, but conducted through subcontractors. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our wholly-owned product candidates and, to a lesser degree, the development of product candidates pursuant to our agreement with Allergan. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses consist of: fees paid to clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, consultants, and vendors, including contract research organizations, or CROs, in conjunction with implementing, conducting, and monitoring our clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating clinical trial data, including all related fees, such as for investigator grants, patient screening fees, laboratory work, and statistical compilation and analysis; expenses related to production of clinical supplies, including fees paid to contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs; expenses related to compliance with regulatory requirements; other consulting fees paid to third parties; and employee-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): The program-specific expenses summarized in the table above include costs directly attributable to our product candidates. Other research and development expenses include costs for early stage programs and costs not allocated to a specific program. We allocate research and development salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, and indirect costs to our product candidates on a program-specific basis, and we include these costs in the program-specific expenses. We begin to track and report program-specific expenses for early stage programs once they have been nominated and selected for further development and clinical-stage work has commenced. The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. We anticipate incurring significant research and development expenses as we continue to support: the FDA's review of ADS-5102 for LID; clinical trials for ADS-5102 in indications beyond LID, including but not limited to walking impairment in multiple sclerosis patients and other Parkinson's disease indications earlier in the Parkinson's disease treatment journey; ADS-4101 for treatment of epilepsy; and potentially additional clinical-stage programs in more indications or for future product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA approval is costly and time consuming. We consider the active management and development of our clinical pipeline to be crucial to our long-term success. The actual probability of success for each product candidate and clinical program may be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the quality of the product candidate, early clinical data, investment in the program, competition, 19 manufacturing capability, and commercial viability. Furthermore, in the past we have entered into licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or collaborations in the future. In situations in which third parties have control over the clinical development of a product candidate, the estimated completion dates are largely under the control of such third parties and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates, if any, will be subject to future licensing or collaboration arrangements or how such arrangements would affect our development plans or capital requirements. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, consist primarily of personnel and related benefit costs, facilities, professional services, insurance, and public company related expenses, as well as increasingly the costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in support of the potential commercialization of ADS-5102 for LID, reduced to a small degree by reimbursement from Allergan for external costs related to supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights under our license agreement. We anticipate our general and administrative expenses will increase significantly as we continue to establish our commercial capabilities and support our potential commercial-stage programs. If ADS-5102 is approved by the FDA, we plan to market and sell through our own sales force or through a contract sales organization, targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, or possibly through collaboration and license agreements with pharmaceutical companies. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest received on our investments. Critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no significant and material changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March31, 2017 , as compared to those disclosed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Results of operations Comparison of the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, except percentages): 20 Revenue Revenue for the three months ended March31, 2017 was zero , compared to $0.2 million for the same period in the prior year. Revenue for the period in 2016 was primarily related to reimbursement of certain expenses as provided for in our license agreement with Allergan, as well as from government contracts. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses decreased by $0.4 million , or 6% to $7.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 from $7.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . The decrease in research and development expenses was mainly attributable to costs associated with the clinical development of ADS-5102, due to the conclusion of two Phase 3 clinical trials assessing ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, in addition to costs associated with the ongoing open-label safety study which decreased slightly from the prior quarter.The decrease was offset in part by increased efforts related to pre-commercial manufacturing activities in preparation for the commercialization of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, if approved, in addition to increased expenses related to clinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was $0.8 million compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $2.5 million , or 38% , to $9.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 from $6.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercialization of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses and commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $2.1 million compared to $1.9 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Interest and other income, net Interest and other income, net, was essentially unchanged at $0.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 . Net interest income is primarily due to interest income earned on investments. Liquidity, capital resources and plan of operation We have funded our operations primarily through $160.0 million of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan, $88.2 million sales of convertible preferred stock and warrants, and $114.1 million pursuant to sales of our common stock. In April 2014, we completed our IPO and raised net proceeds of $42.6 million, including the underwriters' partial exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. In June2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we were able to, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million, which was terminated in November 2016. During the term of the agreement we issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million. On January 6, 2016, we completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. We incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since inception through the year ended December31, 2011. Although we recognized a profit and positive cash flow in 2014, 2013, and 2012 as a result of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan, we received our final milestone payment from Allergan in December2014.We do not currently receive any royalties from Allergan, nor do we have other license agreements or collaborations from which we might expect milestone or royalty revenue. Consequently, we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. Our principal sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which totaled $122.2 million as of March31, 2017 , compared to $135.9 million at December31, 2016 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including operations related to the continued development and potential commercialization of 21 ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we will not achieve the progress that we expect, because the actual costs and timing of drug development, particularly clinical studies, and regulatory approvals are difficult to predict, subject to substantial risks and delays, and often vary depending on the particular indication and development strategy. Moreover, the costs associated with commercializing drugs are high and market acceptance is uncertain. We expect to continue significant spending in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, particularly for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, as well as other indications. In order to continue these activities, we may decide to raise additional funds through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, royalty financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, asset sales, and other marketing and distribution arrangements. Sufficient additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of, or put on hold our clinical studies, research and development programs, or commercialization efforts. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Net cash used in operating activities was $13.9 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to $12.5 million for the same period in the prior year. Net loss of $16.0 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 included net non-cash adjustments of $3.4 million , which consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $2.9 million . Net loss of $13.8 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 included non-cash adjustments of $2.9 million , primarily related to $2.6 million in stock-based compensation. The primary use of cash for the three months ended March31, 2017 was to fund activities in support of the NDA and pre-commercial activities in preparation for the commercialization for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, if approved. Net cash provided by investing activities was $10.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $15.6 million for the same period in the prior year. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 was a result of $10.8 million in net maturities of available-for-sale securities, offset by $0.4 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March31, 2016 was a result of $16.1 million in maturities of available-for-sale securities, offset by $0.5 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.7 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , compared to $62.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . In the period ended March31, 2017 , we received cash proceeds of $0.7 million related to the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended March31, 2016 , we received $61.8 million, inclusive of $0.2 million of offering costs recorded in accounts payable, related to the sale of common stock under a follow-on public offering, coupled with $0.2 million related to the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities, or variable interest entities. Contractual obligations Our future contractual obligations at March31, 2017 , were not materially different than at December31, 2016 . 22ITEM 1.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) (in thousands, except share and per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADAMAS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1.DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Adamas Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") discovers and develops new medicines to treat chronic neurologic disorders. The Company's portfolio includes: ADS-5102 : a high-dose amantadine therapy taken once-daily at bedtime. ADS-5102 for Levodopa-Induced Dyskinesia in Patients with Parkinson's Disease A New Drug Application ("NDA") for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease is under review by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA") date, or deadline by which the FDA must review the NDA, of August 24, 2017. Levodopa-induced dyskinesia is a form of dyskinesia (abnormality or impairment of voluntary movement) associated with levodopa therapy, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease. If approved, the Company plans to initiate access to ADS-5102 for patients in 2017 and execute a full launch of the medicine via the deployment of sales representatives with marketing and promotional support in January 2018. ADS-5102 for Multiple Sclerosis Walking Impairment The Company completed a Phase 2, 4-week proof-of-concept study designed to evaluate ADS-5102 in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have walking impairment, with plans to initiate a Phase 3 study in Q1 2018. ADS-4101 : an investigational high-dose lacosamide to be taken once-daily at bedtime. ADS-4101 for Partial Onset Seizures in Patients with Epilepsy Lacosamide is an anti-epilepsy active ingredient previously approved by the FDA and currently marketed by UCB SA/NV as VIMPAT (lacosamide). The Company is currently conducting a multi-dose Phase 1b study designed to evaluate the tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of three ascending doses of ADS-4101 (up to 600 mg/day) taken once -daily at bedtime compared to ascending doses of twice daily VIMPAT tablets in 24 healthy volunteers. Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules. These two commercially available medicines currently marketed by Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc (collectively, "Allergan") in the United States for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of Namenda XR and Namzaric beginning in June of 2018 and May of 2020, respectively. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on November15, 2000, and operates as one segment. The Company's headquarters and operations are located in Emeryville, California. 2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The financial statements include all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that the Company believes are necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The condensed consolidated balance sheet at December31, 2016 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. These 7 interim financial results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any other future period and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2016 , included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Use of Estimates The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, fair value of assets and liabilities including short-term and long-term classification, embedded derivatives, income taxes, and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Liquidity and Financial Condition To date, a substantial majority of the Company's resources have been dedicated to the research and development of its products.The Company has not generated any commercial revenue from the sale of its products, and does not anticipate the generation of any commercial product revenue until it receives the necessary regulatory approval to launch one of its products. Based upon the current status of, and plans for, its product development and commercialization, the Company believes that the existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $144.9 million as of June30, 2017 will be adequate to satisfy the Company's capital needs through at least the next twelve months from the issuance of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. However, the process of developing and commercializing products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacturing arrangements, as well as regulatory approvals. These activities, together with the Company's general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in significant operating losses until the commercialization of the Company's products or license agreements generate sufficient revenue to offsetexpenses. While the Company had net income during 2014, 2013, and 2012, it has not generated any commercial revenue from sales of its products. Under its license agreement with Allergan, the Company received the final milestone payment in 2014, and is not entitled to receive any royalties for net sales of Namzaric until mid-2020 and Namenda XR until mid-2018. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company, alone or with others, must successfully develop its product candidates, obtain required regulatory approvals, and successfully manufacture and market its products. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all four of the following criteria have been met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii)the fee is fixed or determinable, and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue under license arrangements is recognized based on the performance requirements of the contract. Determinations of whether persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and whether delivery has occurred or services have been rendered are based on management's judgments regarding the fixed nature of the fees charged for deliverables and the collectability of those fees. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine that these criteria are not met for any new or modified transactions, revenue recognized could be adversely affected. The Company generates revenue from collaboration and license agreements for the development and commercialization of products. Collaboration and license agreements may include non-refundable upfront license fees, partial or complete reimbursement of research and development costs, contingent consideration payments based on the achievement of defined objectives, and royalties on sales of commercialized products. The Company's performance obligations under the collaboration and license agreements may include the license or transfer of intellectual property rights, obligations to provide research and development services and related materials, and obligations to participate on certain development and/or commercialization committees with the partners. For revenue agreements with multiple-element arrangements, the Company allocates revenue to each non-contingent element based on the relative-selling-price of each element in an arrangement. When applying the relative- 8 selling-price method, the Company determines the selling price for each deliverable using the following estimation hierarchy: (i)vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value of the deliverable, if it exists, (ii)third-party evidence of selling price, if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available, or (iii)the vendor's best estimate of selling price, if neither vendor-specific nor third-party evidence is available. Revenue allocated is then recognized when the four basic revenue recognition criteria, mentioned above, are met for each element. The Company recognizes payments that are contingent upon achievement of a substantive milestone in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Milestones are defined as events that can only be achieved based on the Company's performance and there is substantive uncertainty about whether the event will be achieved at the inception of the arrangement. Events that are contingent only on the passage of time or only on counterparty performance are not considered milestones subject to this guidance. Further, the amounts received must relate solely to prior performance, be reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms within the agreement and commensurate with the Company's performance to achieve the milestone after commencement of the agreement. Amounts related to research and development funding and full-time equivalent employees assigned to the license agreement are recognized as the related services or activities are performed, in accordance with the contract terms. Accounts Receivable The Company's accounts receivable balance consists of amounts due from Allergan, in accordance with the contract terms of the license agreement, for research and development funding and full-time equivalent employees assigned to the Allergan license agreement, as well as for reimbursement of external costs, recorded as contra-expense, associated with supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights. Clinical Trial Accruals The Company's clinical trial accruals are based on estimates of patient enrollment and related costs at clinical investigator sites as well as estimates for the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and contract research organizations ("CROs") that conduct and manage clinical trials on the Company's behalf. The Company estimates clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and CROs that conduct and manage clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company obtains the reported level of patient enrollment at each site and estimates the time period over which services are to be performed and activity expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Research and Development Research and development ("R&D") expenses include salaries and related compensation, contractor and consultant fees, external clinical trial expenses performed by CROs, licensing fees, acquired intellectual property with no alternative future use, and facility and administrative expense allocations. In addition, the Company funds R&D at research institutions under agreements that are generally cancelable at its option. Research costs typically consist of applied research and preclinical and toxicology work. Pharmaceutical manufacturing development costs consist of product formulation, chemical analysis, and the transfer and scale-up of manufacturing at facilities operated by the Company's contract manufacturers. Clinical development costs include the costs of Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 clinical trials. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses. The Company accrues costs for clinical trial activities performed by contract research organizations and other third parties based upon the estimated amount of work completed on each study as provided by the CRO. These estimates are reviewed for reasonableness by the Company'sinternal clinical personnel, and the Company aims to match the accrual to actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities. The Company monitors patient enrollment levels and related activities using available information; however, if the Company underestimates activity levels associated with various studies at a given point in time, the Company could be required to record significant additional R&D expenses in future periods when the actual activity level becomes 9 known. The Company charges all such costs to R&D expenses. Non-refundable advance payments are capitalized and expensed as the related goods are delivered or services are performed. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt consists of the Company's loan agreement with HealthCare Royalty Partners ("HCRP"). The Company accounted for the loan agreement as a debt financing arrangement. Interest expense is accrued using the effective interest rate method over the estimated period the debt will be repaid. Debt issuance costs have been recorded as a debt discount in the Company's consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized and recorded as interest expense throughout the life of the loan using the effective interest rate method. The Company must make certain assumptions and estimates, including future royalties and net product sales, in determining the expected repayment term and amortization period of the debt discount, as well as the classification between current and long-term portions. The Company periodically assesses these assumptions and estimates, and adjusts the liabilities accordingly. Embedded Derivatives Related to Debt Instruments Embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from their host contract are evaluated and valued separately from the debt instrument. Under the Company's loan agreement with HCRP, upon the occurrence of a default or a change in control, the Company may be required to make mandatory prepayments of the borrowings. The prepayment premium is considered an embedded derivative, as the holder of the loans may exercise the option to require prepayment by the Company. Further, in the event of a regulatory change that results in a material adverse effect on HCRP's rate of return, the Company shall pay directly to HCRP an amount that compensates HCRP for such reduction. The embedded derivative is presented as a component of other non-current liabilities. The Company will remeasure the embedded derivatives each reporting period and report changes in the estimated fair value as gains or losses in interest and other income, net, in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. Basic and Diluted Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share is based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Common stock equivalents are options granted under the Company's stock awards plans and are calculated under the treasury stock method. Common equivalent shares from unexercised stock options and unvested restricted stock units are excluded from the computation when there is a loss as their effect is anti-dilutive, or if the exercise price of such options is greater than the average market price of the stock for the period. The Company incurred net losses for all periods presented and there were no reconciling items for potentially dilutive securities. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , approximately 6,107,000 and 5,899,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 , approximately 5,714,000 and 5,542,000 , respectively, shares of potentially dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of stock options granted to employees and directors and for employee stock purchase plan shares by estimating the fair value of stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation of restricted stock units granted to employees based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock-based awards is recognized and amortized over the applicable vesting period. All stock options awarded to non-employees are accounted for at the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instrument issued, as calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Stock options granted to non-employees are subject to periodic revaluation at each reporting date as the underlying equity instruments vest. In order to estimate the value of share-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes model, which requires the use of certain subjective assumptions. The most significant subjective assumptions are management's estimates of the expected volatility and the expected term of the award. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from any of these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and the Company's results of operations could be materially impacted. 10 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amendment in this ASU provides guidance on the revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The core principle of this update provides guidance to identify the performance obligations under the contract(s) with a customer and how to allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. It further provides guidance to recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date of this standard to 2018 for public companies, with an option that would permit companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date of 2017. Early adoption prior to the original effective date is not permitted. Since the issuance of ASU 2014-09, the FASB has issued several amendments which clarify certain points, including ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting , ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and ASU 2016-20 , Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Company plans to adopt the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the method of adoption and effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . The authoritative guidance significantly amends the current accounting for leases. Under the new provisions, all lessees will report a right-of-use asset and a liability for the obligation to make payments for all leases with the exception of those leases with a term of 12 months or less.All other leases will fall into one of two categories: (i) a financing lease or (ii) an operating lease. Lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged with the exception that no leases entered into after the effective date will be classified as leveraged leases. For sale leaseback transactions, a sale will only be recognized if the criteria in the new revenue recognition standard are met. For public business entities, this guidance is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods thereafter.Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. The new guidance changes the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Scope of Modification Accounting. The new guidance clarifies when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 3.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS In accordance with ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, the Company determines the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level 1 inputs, which include quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 inputs, which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. For available-for-sale securities, the Company reviews trading activity and pricing as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, 11 the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable market data; and Level 3 inputs, which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation. The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities which require fair value measurement on a recurring basis (in thousands): Money market funds are highly liquid investments and are actively traded. The pricing information on these investment instruments are readily available and can be independently validated as of the measurement date. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. The Company reviews trading activity and pricing for these investments as of each measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, the Company uses market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third party data providers. These inputs represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or these inputs have been derived from observable market data. This approach results in the classification of these securities as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, the related assets or liabilities are classified as Level 3. The Company classified an embedded derivative related to the Royalty-Backed Loan as a Level 3 liability. The fair value of the embedded derivative as a result of a change in control was calculated using a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model. The model used in valuing this embedded derivative requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: 1) expected cash flows the Company expects to receive on U.S. net sales of ADS-5102 and on royalties from Allergan on U.S. net sales of Namzaric ; 2) the Company's risk adjusted discount rates; 3) the probability of FDA approval and receipt of Orphan Drug exclusivity for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID; and 4) the probability of a change in control occurring during the term of the note based on the percentage of similar companies that were acquired over the previous five year period. Changes in the estimated fair value of the bifurcated embedded derivative are reported as gains or losses in interest and other income, net, in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. In the periods presented, the embedded derivative value as a result of an event of default and the value as a result of increased costs due to a regulatory change are both not material, but could 12 become material in future periods if a specified event of default or regulatory change became more probable than is currently estimated. See Note 7 "Long-Term Debt," for further description. There were no transfers between any of the levels of the fair value hierarchy during the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . 4.INVESTMENTS The Company's investments consist of corporate debt and U.S. Treasury notes classified as available-for-sale securities. The Company limits the amount of investment exposure as to institution, maturity, and investment type. To mitigate credit risk, the Company invests in investment grade corporate debt and United States Treasury notes. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and shown separately as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are reclassified from other comprehensive loss to other income (expense) on the condensed consolidated statements of operations when incurred. The Company may pay a premium or receive a discount upon the purchase of available-for-sale securities. Interest earned and gains realized on available-for-sale securities and amortization of discounts received and accretion of premiums paid on the purchase of available-for-sale securities are included in investment income. The following table is a summary of amortized cost, unrealized gain and loss, and the fair value of available-for-sale securities as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 (in thousands): Short-term and long-term investments include accrued interest of $0.4 million and $0.1 million , respectively, as of June30, 2017 . Short-term and long-term investments includes accrued interest of $0.3 million and $0.1 million , respectively, as of December31, 2016 . The Company has not incurred any realized gains or losses on investments for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 . Investments are classified as short-term or long-term depending on 13 the underlying investment's maturity date. Long-term investments held by the Company have a maturity date range of greater than 12 months and a maximum of 15 months as of June30, 2017 . 5.LICENSE AGREEMENTS In November 2012, the Company granted Allergan an exclusive license, with right to sublicense, certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. In connection with these rights, Allergan markets and sells Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. Pursuant to the agreement, Allergan made an upfront payment of $65.0 million . The Company earned and received additional cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Allergan of certain development and regulatory milestones. Under the agreement, external costs incurred related to the prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights are reimbursable.For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , reimbursed expenses amounting to zero and $1.2 million , respectively, are reflected as a reduction to general andadministrative, net. In addition, the Company may earn tiered royalty payments based on future net sales of Namzaric and Namenda XR . The Company is entitled to receive royalties on net sales in the United States by Allergan, its affiliates, or any of its sublicensees of controlled-release versions of memantine products covered by the terms of the license agreement. Beginning in May 2020, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Allergan for sales of Namzaric in the United States. Beginning in June 2018, the Company will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for sales of Namenda XR in the United States. Allergan's obligation to pay royalties with respect to fixed-dose memantine-donepezil products, including Namzaric , continues until the later of (i) 15 years after the commercial launch of the first fixed-dose memantine-donepezil product by Allergan in the United States or (ii) the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents for which Allergan obtained rights from the Company covering such product. Allergan's obligation to pay royalties with respect to Namenda XR continues until the expiration of the Orange Book listed patents covering such products. However, Allergan's obligation to pay royalties for any product covered by the license is eliminated in any quarter where there is significant competition from generics. 6.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Lease Commitments The Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet of office space in Emeryville, California under an operating lease that expires April 30, 2020. The lease provides for periods of escalating rent. The total cash payments over the life of the lease are divided by the total number of months in the lease period and the average rent is charged to expense each month during the lease period. As of June30, 2017 , future minimum lease payments under the non-cancelable facility operating leasewere as follows (in thousands): Purchase Commitments The Company enters into contracts in the normal course of business that include, among others, arrangements with CROs for clinical trials, vendors for pre-clinical research, and vendors for manufacturing. These contracts generally provide for termination upon notice, and therefore the Company believes that its obligations under these agreements are not material. 14 Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations and warranties and provide for general indemnifications. The Company's exposure under these agreements is unknown, because it involves claims that may be made against the Company in the future, but have not yet been made. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Indemnification In accordance with the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, the Company has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they are serving in such capacity. There have been no claims to date, and the Company has a directors and officers liability insurance policy that may enable it to recover a portion of any amounts paid for future claims. Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings In November 2012, the Company granted Forest an exclusive license to certain of the Company's intellectual property rights relating to human therapeutics containing memantine in the United States. Under the terms of that license agreement, Forest has the right to enforce such intellectual property rights which are related to its right to market and sell Namzaric and Namenda XR for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia related to Alzheimer's disease. The Company has a right to participate in, but not control, such enforcement actions by Forest. As of the date of this filing, several companies have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, including one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv) to the FDA requesting approval to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR , on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in June 2018. In the notices, these companies allege that the patents associated with Namenda XR , some of which are owned by Forest or licensed by Forest from Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and others of which are owned by the Company and licensed by the Company exclusively to Forest in the United States, are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the companies' manufacture, use, or sale of generic versions of Namenda XR . The Company, Forest, Merz Pharma GmbH & Co. KGaA, and Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH (together Merz) filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the relevant patents against all of these companies. The Company and Forest will continue to enforce the patents associated with Namenda XR . The Company and Forest have entered into a series of settlement agreements with all Namenda XR ANDA filers, except for one recent ANDA filer. Entry dates for generic Namenda XR are governed by the settlement agreements in that action. Subject to those agreements, the earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namenda XR is January 31, 2020 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namenda XR beginning on January 31, 2021. In January 2016, the Delaware District Court issued a claim construction (Markman) ruling in the Namenda XR litigation that includes findings of indefiniteness as to certain claim terms in the asserted patents licensed by the Company to Forest. On July 26, 2016, the District Court issued a final judgment of invalidity on those patents based upon the Markman ruling. The Company and Forest filed the notice of appeal of that final judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeal is ongoing. If the appeal is unsuccessful, generic entry of Namenda XR could occur prior to January 31, 2020. On June 2, 2017, the Company and Forest filed a lawsuit against the remaining ANDA filer in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of certain patents based on that filer's filing of an ANDA seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic versions of Namenda XR that included one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv). This action is ongoing and in a very early stage. On July 24, 2017, an ANDA filer that previously entered into a settlement agreement with Forrest and Adamas filed a complaint against the Company and Forest in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware alleging that Forest and the Company breached the license agreement and settlement agreement entered into with that filer to settle the litigation related to its ANDA referencing Namenda XR as the reference listed drug. This action is ongoing and in a very early stage. 15 Additionally, as of the date of this filing, a number of companies have submitted ANDAs including one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv) to the FDA requesting approval to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric , on which the Company is entitled to receive royalties from Forest beginning in May 2020. The Company and Forest have filed lawsuits alleging infringement of the relevant patents against Namzaric ANDA filers, who are seeking to launch generic versions of Namzaric , in the same court as heard the Namenda XR litigation.As of the date of this filing, the Company and Forest have settled with all but one of the ANDA filers, including all first filers on all the available dosage forms of Namzaric . Entry dates for generic Namzaric are governed by the settlement agreements in those actions. Subject to those agreements, the earliest date on which any of these agreements grants a license to market generic version of Namzaric is January 1, 2025 or in the alternative, an option to launch an authorized generic version of Namzaric beginning on January 1, 2026. The Company and Forest intend to continue to enforce the patents associated with Namzaric . On June 2, 2017, the Company and Forest filed a lawsuit against the remaining ANDA filer in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of certain patents based on its filing of an ANDA seeking FDA approval to manufacture and market generic versions of Namzaric that included one or more certifications pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 355(j)(2)(A)(vii)(iv). This action is ongoing and in a very early stage. On April 20, 2017, an opposition was filed against Adamas' European Patent EP 2 506 709 B1, which relates to extended-release compositions comprising amantadine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. On May 26, 2017, the Company received a Communication of Notices of Opposition (R. 79(1) EPC) from the European Patent Office that requested the Company file its observations in response to the opposition within a period of four months from May 26, 2017. The Company intends to continue to challenge this opposition. From time to time, the Company may be party to legal proceedings, investigations, and claims in the ordinary course of its business. Other than the matters described above, the Company is not currently party to any material legal proceedings. 7.LONG-TERM DEBT Royalty-Backed Loan Agreement In May 2017, the Company, through a new wholly-owned subsidiary, Adamas Pharma, LLC, entered into a Royalty-Backed Loan with HCRP, whereby the Company borrowed $35.0 million and has the right to receive an additional $65.0 million upon FDA approval and receipt of Orphan Drug exclusivity of ADS-5102 (amantadine) extended-release capsules for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease if achieved prior to a specified date. Principal and interest will be payable quarterly from the proceeds of a 12.5% royalty on U.S. net sales of ADS-5102 and up to $15.0 million of the Company's annual royalties from Allergan on U.S. net sales of Namzaric starting in May 2020, pursuant to the Company's license agreement with Allergan. The royalty rate on net sales of ADS-5102 will drop to 6.25% after the principal amount of the loan has been repaid in full, until the Company has made total payments of 200% of the funded amounts. The Company may elect to voluntarily prepay the loan at any time in which case the amount due will be 200% of the funded amounts, less total payments made to date. Royalty rates are subject to increase to 17.5% and 22.5% if total principal and interest payments have not reached minimum specified levels at measurement dates on December 2021 and December 2022, respectively. Under the terms of the loan, HCRP has recourse to Adamas Pharma, LLC, not the Company. The loan agreement matures in December 2026 but as the repayment of the loan amount is contingent upon the sales volumes of ADS-5102 and royalties from Allergan, the repayment term may be shortened depending on the actual sales of ADS-5102 and actual royalties received from Allergan. The loans bear interest at an annual rate of 11% on the outstanding principal amount and includes an interest-only period until the interest payment date following the ninth full calendar quarter after the earlier of the $65.0 million additional loan or October 2018. To the extent that royalties are insufficient to pay interest in full, any unpaid portion of the quarterly interest payment will be added to the principal amount of the loans. For the three months ended June 30, 2017, accrued interest in the amount of $0.7 million was added to the principal balance of the loan. In connection with the Royalty-Backed Loan, the Company paid HCRP a lender expense amount of $0.4 million and incurred additional debt issuance costs totaling $0.8 million . The lender expense and additional debt issuance costs have been recorded as a debt discount and are being amortized and recorded as interest expense over the estimated 16 term of the loan using the effective interest method. The Company recorded interest expense, including amortization of the debt discount, related to the Royalty-Backed Loan, of $0.7 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 . The effective interest rate on the amounts borrowed under the Royalty-Backed Loan, including the amortization of the debt discount was 16.6% . The assumptions used in determining the expected repayment term of the loan and amortization period of the debt discount require that we make estimates that could impact the short and long-term classification of these costs, as well as the period over which these costs will be amortized. The Company may be required to make mandatory prepayments of the borrowings under the Royalty-Backed Loan, subject to specified prepayment trigger events, including: (1) the occurrence of any event of default or (2) the occurrence of a change in control. Upon the prepayment of all or any of the outstanding principal balance, the Company shall pay in addition to such prepayment, a prepayment premium. As the holder of the loans may exercise the option to require prepayment by the Company, the prepayment premium is considered to be an embedded derivative which is required to be bifurcated from its host contract and accounted for as a separate financial instrument. The embedded derivative is presented together with the debt instrument and the related debt discount on a combined basis. The valuation of the embedded derivative is described further in Note 3. Long-term debt and unamortized debt discount balances are as follows (in thousands): The estimated fair value of the long-term debt, as measured using Level 3 inputs, approximates the carrying amounts as presented on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2017. The estimated fair value was calculated in the same manner as the valuation of the embedded derivative as described further in Note 3. There are no contractual minimum principal payments due until the loan matures in December 2026 as the repayment of the loan amount is contingent upon the sales volumes of ADS-5102 and royalties from Allergan. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Common Stock The amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. Common stockholders are entitled to dividends as and when declared by the board of directors, subject to the rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding having priority rights as to dividends. There have been no dividends declared to date. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. Public Offering In January 2016, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million , net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. 17 Shares Reserved for Future Issuance Shares of the Company's common stock reserved for future issuance are as follows: Sales Agreement In May 2017, the Company entered into a sales agreement ("Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), as sales agent, pursuant to which the Company may, from time to time, issue and sell at its option, shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate offering price of up to $50.0 million under an at-the-market offering ("ATM Offering"). Sales of the common stock, if any, will be made pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on November 21, 2016. Cowen is acting as sole sales agent for any sales made under the Sales Agreement and the Company will pay Cowen a commission of up to 3% of the gross proceeds. The Company's common stock will be sold at prevailing market prices at the time of the sale, and, as a result, prices may vary. The Company is not obligated to make any sales of shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement. Unless otherwise terminated earlier, the Sales Agreement continues until all shares available under the Sales Agreement have been sold. As of June 30, 2017, no shares have been sold under the Sales Agreement. 9.STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION Stock Compensation Plans In January 2017 , the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") automatically increased by 4% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on December31, 2016 , or 880,362 shares. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Inducement Plan (the "Inducement Plan") under which 450,000 shares of the Company's common stock were made available for issuance. In January 2017, an amendment to the Inducement Plan was approved to increase the number of shares available for issuance an additional 450,000 shares for a total of 900,000 shares. Employee Stock Purchase Plan In January 2017 , the common stock available for issuance under the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") automatically increased by 1% of the total number of shares of the Company's capital stock outstanding on December31, 2016 , or 220,090 shares. 18 Stock-Based CompensationExpense The following table reflects stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 19 ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk factors." Overview At Adamas, we believe in the power and the promise of medicines derived from a deep understanding of time-dependent biology. All biological processes, including the body's responses to disease and drug interventions, are governed by complex timing patterns. When the timing of disease and drug responses are out of sync, patient outcomes can be compromised. Our expertise lies in uncovering andmappingthe relationship between disease and drug activity timing patterns. From there, we strive to createmedicines with therapeutic profilesthatmatchthe pattern of disease to drive a significant and durableclinical effect. As a result, our medicines are designed to provide patients with what they need, when they need it-the right level of drug at the right place and time to enhance efficacy-and then lower levels of drug when they don't need it. Our goal is to develop medicines that are timed for the benefit of patients. A unique understanding of time-dependent biological processes informs our every innovation, targeting advancement in treatment of chronic neurologic disorders. Our portfolio includes: ADS-5102 : ADS-5102 is a high-dose, extended-release amantadine capsule taken once daily at bedtime. ADS-5102 for Levodopa-Induced Dyskinesia in Patients with Parkinson's Disease Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder affecting close to 1 million people in the United States. Levodopa, which replaces lost dopamine, is considered the "gold standard" and the most effective therapy for Parkinson's disease. Over time, people with Parkinson's disease require increasingly higher or more frequent doses of levodopa in order to avoid recurrent periods of OFF time - characterized by slowness of movement, rigidity, impaired walking, tremor, and postural instability - when the underlying symptoms of Parkinson's disease return. As Parkinson's disease progresses, nearly all people on levodopa therapy will also experience levodopa-induced dyskinesia, which is characterized by involuntary movements that are non-rhythmic, purposeless, and unpredictable. In a robust clinical program consisting of three randomized placebo-controlled studies and a two-year, ongoing, open label safety study, ADS-5102 demonstrated a durable reduction in both dyskinesia and OFF time in people with Parkinson's disease. A new drug application (NDA) for ADS-5102 for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease is under review by the FDA with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date of August 24, 2017. If approved, ADS-5102 has the potential to be the first and only FDA-approved medicine for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease. In that event, we are planning to initiate access to ADS-5102 for patients in 2017, and execute a full launch of the medicine via the deployment of sales representatives with marketing and promotional support in January 2018. ADS-5102 for Multiple Sclerosis Walking Impairment We completed a Phase 2, 4-week proof-of-concept study designed to evaluate ADS-5102 in patients with multiple sclerosis who have walking impairment. A significant benefit in walking speed was observed versus placebo on both mean value and the proportion of participants with a clinically significant 20% improvement. The results for timed-up-and-go (TUG) and 2-minute walking test (2MWT) also suggested benefit on other aspects of mobility and walking. We plan to initiate a Phase 3 study in this indication in Q1 2018. 20 ADS-4101 : ADS-4101 is an investigational high-dose, modified-release lacosamide capsule, taken once-daily at bedtime. ADS-4101 for Partial Onset Seizures in Patients with Epilepsy Lacosamide is an anti-epilepsy active ingredient previously approved by the FDA and currently marketed by UCB SA/NV as VIMPAT (lacosamide). ADS-4101 was designed to temper the initial rate-of-rise in lacosamide concentrations, potentially improving the adverse event profile and dose limitations due to dizziness following administration of VIMPAT. The slow initial rise may enable a higher once-daily dose at bedtime, which results in a higher daytime concentration that may be more effective for patients than VIMPAT. The data from a Phase 1 study of 24 healthy volunteers showed that a single 400 mg dose of ADS-4101 has improved tolerability compared to the equivalent dose of VIMPAT (lacosamide) immediate-release (IR) tablets. The data also demonstrated that ADS-4101 exhibited the desired pharmacokinetic properties, namely a reduced initial rate-of-rise of lacosamide concentration and prolonged time to maximum drug concentration (Tmax) appropriate for bedtime dosing. We are currently conducting a multi-dose Phase 1b study designed to evaluate the tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of three ascending doses of ADS-4101 (up to 600 mg/day) taken once-daily at bedtime compared to ascending doses of twice daily VIMPAT tablets in 24 healthy volunteers. We expect to announce topline data for the Phase 1b trial in the third quarter of 2017. Namzaric (memantine hydrochloride extended-release and donepezil hydrochloride) capsules and Namenda XR (memantine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules. These two commercially available medicines are currently marketed by Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited ("Forest"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan plc (collectively, "Allergan"), in the United States for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. We are eligible to receive royalties on sales of Namenda XR and Namzaric beginning in June of 2018 and May of 2020, respectively. Financial operations overview Summary Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from license, milestone, and development revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan. We have not generated any commercial product revenue. As of June30, 2017 , we had an accumulated deficit of $159.0 million . Although we reported net income in each of the years ended December31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, this was primarily due to the recognition of revenue pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan. There are no further milestone payments to be earned under our license agreement with Allergan. We incurred significant losses in the six months ended June30, 2017 , in 2016, 2015, and prior to 2012, and expect to continue to incur significant losses as we advance our product candidates into later stages of development and, if approved, commercialization. We plan to commercialize ADS-5102 for LID, if approved, and potentially other wholly-owned product candidates by developing a commercial organization, including either our own sales force or a contract sales organization, targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States, or possibly through partnership agreements with pharmaceutical companies. Consequently, we expect general and administrative expenses to increase as we approach a potential product commercialization of ADS-5102 for LID currently contemplated to be initiated later in 2017. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses as we continue to advance our product candidates through clinical development. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with drug development and commercialization, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses incurred or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Under our agreement with Allergan, beginning in May2020, we are entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-teens for net sales of Namzaric in the United States. In addition, we are also entitled to receive tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digits from Allergan for net sales of Namenda XR in the United States beginning in June2018; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $65.0million in 2012, which we recognized on a straight-line basis from November2012 to February2013. We also earned and received additional 21 cash payments totaling $95.0 million upon achievement by Allergan of certain development and regulatory milestones, which we recognized in 2013 and 2014. Prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, in April2014, we had raised an aggregate of approximately $87.2million through the sale of convertible preferred stock and $1.0 million through the exercise of preferred stock warrants. In 2014, we issued and sold 3,081,371 shares of common stock in our IPO and received net proceeds of approximately $42.6 million, which included partial exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares and after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of our IPO, all convertible preferred stock converted into common stock. In June2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we were able to issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million , which was terminated in November 2016. During the term of the agreement, we issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million . In January 2016, we raised $61.8 million from the sale of 2,875,000 shares of common stock in a follow-on public offering. In May 2017, we entered into a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC, pursuant to which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up the $50.0 million. As of June30, 2017 , no shares have been sold under the sales agreement. Also in May 2017, we entered into a royalty-backed loan agreement ("Royalty-Backed Loan") with HealthCare Royalty Partners ("HCRP"), whereby we borrowed $35.0 million and have the right to receive an additional $65.0 million upon FDA approval and receipt of Orphan Drug exclusivity of ADS-5102 (amantadine) extended-release capsules for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease if achieved prior to a specified date. As of June30, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities of $144.9 million . Revenue We have not generated any revenue from commercial product sales to date. Our revenue to date has been generated primarily from non-refundable upfront license payments, milestone payments, reimbursements for research and development expenses and full-time equivalents assigned under our license agreement with Allergan, and to a lesser degree reimbursement for research and development expenses from NIH grants and government contracts. We do not expect to recognize any further milestone payments under our license agreement with Allergan, and we expect reimbursements for full-time equivalents assigned to the license agreement to be inconsequential in future periods. Beginning in May2020, we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-teens from Allergan for net sales of Namzaric in the United States, and in June2018 we will be entitled to receive royalties in the low to mid-single digits for net sales of Namenda XR in the United States; however, we do not expect the Namenda XR royalties will make a significant financial contribution to our business. We were also awarded a continuation of an NIH grant for $1.0 million in August2014 that terminated in July 2016, which we administered, but conducted through subcontractors. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our wholly-owned product candidates and, to a lesser degree, the development of product candidates pursuant to our agreement with Allergan. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Research and development expenses consist of: fees paid to clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, consultants, and vendors, including contract research organizations, or CROs, in conjunction with implementing, conducting, and monitoring our clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating clinical trial data, including all related fees, such as for investigator grants, patient screening fees, laboratory work, and statistical compilation and analysis; expenses related to production of clinical supplies, including fees paid to contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs; expenses related to establishment and validation of manufacturing capabilities for commercial supply, should approval be obtained; expenses related to compliance with regulatory requirements; other consulting fees paid to third parties; and 22 employee-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): The program-specific expenses summarized in the table above include costs directly attributable to our product candidates. Other research and development expenses include costs for early stage programs and costs not allocated to a specific program. We allocate research and development salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation, and indirect costs to our product candidates on a program-specific basis, and we include these costs in the program-specific expenses. We begin to track and report program-specific expenses for early stage programs once they have been nominated and selected for further development and clinical-stage work has commenced. The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. We anticipate incurring significant research and development expenses as we continue to support: the FDA's review of ADS-5102 for LID; clinical trials for ADS-5102 in indications beyond LID, including but not limited to walking impairment in multiple sclerosis patients and other Parkinson's disease indications earlier in the Parkinson's disease treatment journey; ADS-4101 for treatment of epilepsy; and potentially additional clinical-stage programs in more indications or for future product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA approval is costly and time consuming. We consider the active management and development of our clinical pipeline to be crucial to our long-term success. The actual probability of success for each product candidate and clinical program may be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the quality of the product candidate, early clinical data, investment in the program, competition, manufacturing capability, and commercial viability. Furthermore, in the past we have entered into licensing arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we may enter into additional licensing arrangements or collaborations in the future. In situations in which third parties have control over the clinical development of a product candidate, the estimated completion dates are largely under the control of such third parties and not under our control. We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates, if any, will be subject to future licensing or collaboration arrangements or how such arrangements would affect our development plans or capital requirements. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, consist primarily of personnel and related benefit costs, facilities, professional services, insurance, and public company related expenses, as well as increasingly the costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in support of the potential commercialization of ADS-5102 for LID, reduced to a small degree by reimbursement from Allergan for external costs related to supporting prosecution and litigation of intellectual property rights under our license agreement. We anticipate our general and administrative expenses will increase significantly as we continue to establish our commercial capabilities and support our potential commercial-stage programs. If ADS-5102 is approved by the FDA, we plan to market and sell through our own sales force with support from a contract sales organization for certain functions, targeting neurologists and movement disorder specialists in the United States. Interest and other income (expense), net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest received on our investments. 23 Interest expense Interest expense consists of accrued interest pursuant to our Royalty-Based Loan and amortization of debt issuance costs. Critical accounting policies and significant judgments and estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Refer to "Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the accompanying "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited)," which information is incorporated by reference here, for changes to our critical accounting policies during the six months ended June30, 2017 , as compared to those disclosed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Results of operations Comparison of the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue Revenue for both the three and six months ended June30, 2017 was $2,000 , compared to $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 . Revenue for all periods presented was primarily related to reimbursement of certain expenses as provided for in our license agreement with Allergan, as well as from government contracts. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses decreased by $2.0 million , or 22% , to $7.2 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 from $9.2 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 . The decrease in research and development expenses was mainly attributable to costs associated with the clinical development of ADS-5102, due to the conclusion of two Phase 3 clinical trials assessing ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, in addition to decreased costs associated with the ongoing open-label safety study and decreased volume of pre-commercial manufacturing activities. The decrease was offset in part by increased activity related to clinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based 24 compensation expense, which was $0.9 million compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Research and development expenses decreased by $2.5 million , or 15% , to $14.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $16.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 . The decrease in research and development expenses was mainly attributable to costs associated with the clinical development of ADS-5102, due to the conclusion of two Phase 3 clinical trials assessing ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, in addition to costs associated with the ongoing open-label safety study which also decreased from the prior year.The decrease was offset by increased activity related to clinical work associated with ADS-4101 for the treatment of partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy. Included in research and development expenses was stock-based compensation expense, which was $1.7 million compared to $1.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $5.1 million , or 63% , to $13.1 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 from $8.1 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercialization of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses and commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $2.9 million compared to $1.9 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. General and administrative expenses, net, increased by $7.6 million , or 51% , to $22.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $14.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 . The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased costs associated with establishing commercial capabilities in anticipation of the commercialization of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, pending regulatory approval, including an increase in headcount-related expenses and commercial activities. General and administrative expenses also included stock-based compensation expense of $4.9 million compared to $3.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Interest and other income, net Interest and other income, net, was essentially unchanged at $0.2 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , and $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Net interest income is primarily due to interest income earned on investments. Interest expense The increase in interest expense to $0.7 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the three and six months ended June30, 2016 was due to the new Royalty-Backed Loan entered into in May 2017. Liquidity, capital resources and plan of operation We have funded our operations primarily through $160.0 million of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan, $88.2 million sales of convertible preferred stock and warrants, $114.1 million pursuant to sales of our common stock, and $35.0 million pursuant to our Royalty-Backed Loan with HCRP. In April 2014, we completed our IPO and raised net proceeds of $42.6 million, including the underwriters' partial exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. In June2015, we entered into a Controlled Equity Offering Sales Agreement, pursuant to which we were able to, from time to time, issue and sell shares of common stock having an aggregate offering value of up to $25.0 million, which was terminated in November 2016. During the term of the agreement we issued 509,741 shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $9.7 million. In January 2016, we completed a follow-on public offering of 2,875,000 shares of common stock, which includes the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase 375,000 shares of common stock, at an offering price of $23.00 per share. Proceeds from the follow-on public offering were approximately $61.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering-related transaction costs. In May 2017, we entered into a Royalty-Backed Loan with HCRP, whereby we borrowed $35.0 million and have the right to receive an additional $65.0 million upon FDA approval and receipt of Orphan Drug exclusivity of ADS-5102 (amantadine) extended-release capsules for the treatment of LID in patients with Parkinson's disease. 25 We have not generated any revenue from the sale of products. We incurred losses and generated negative cash flows from operations since inception through the year ended December31, 2011. Although we recognized a profit and positive cash flow in 2014, 2013, and 2012 as a result of payments received pursuant to our license agreement with Allergan, we received our final milestone payment from Allergan in December2014.We do not currently receive any royalties from Allergan, nor do we have other license agreements or collaborations from which we might expect milestone or royalty revenue. Consequently, we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. Our principal sources of liquidity were our cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which totaled $144.9 million as of June30, 2017 , compared to $135.9 million at December31, 2016 . We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements, including operations related to the continued development and potential commercialization of ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, for at least the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we will not achieve the progress that we expect, because the actual costs and timing of drug development, particularly clinical studies, and regulatory approvals are difficult to predict, subject to substantial risks and delays, and often vary depending on the particular indication and development strategy. Moreover, the costs associated with commercializing drugs are high and market acceptance is uncertain. We expect to continue significant spending in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, particularly for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, as well as other indications, and also for ADS-4101 for indications in epilepsy, for which Phase 3 clinical trials may be initiated in 2018. In order to continue these activities, we may decide to raise additional funds through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, royalty financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, asset sales, and other marketing and distribution arrangements. Sufficient additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may need to delay, reduce the scope of, or put on hold our clinical studies, research and development programs, or commercialization efforts. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Net cash used in operating activities was $26.6 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to $24.5 million for the same period in the prior year. Net loss of $36.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 included net non-cash adjustments of $7.9 million , which consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $6.6 million . Net loss of $30.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 included non-cash adjustments of $5.9 million , primarily related to $5.2 million in stock-based compensation. The primary use of cash for the six months ended June30, 2017 was to fund activities in support of the NDA and pre-commercial activities in preparation for the commercialization for ADS-5102 for the treatment of LID, if approved. Additionally, cash was used to fund development of ADS-4101 for indications in epilepsy. Net cash provided by investing activities was $0.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 , compared to $36.4 million for the same period in the prior year. In the six months ended June30, 2017 , we received $1.0 million as a result of net maturities of available-for-sale securities, offset by $0.6 million in purchases of property and equipment. In the six months ended June30, 2016 we received $37.7 million as a result of maturities of available-for-sale securities, offset by $1.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $36.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 , compared to $64.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 . In the period ended June30, 2017 , we received net proceeds of $34.6 million from long-term debt and received cash proceeds of $1.6 million related to the exercise of stock options and purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In the six months ended June30, 2016 , we 26 received net cash proceeds of $61.8 million related to the sale of common stock under a follow-on public offering, coupled with $2.4 million related to the exercise of stock options and purchases of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Off-balance sheet arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities, or variable interest entities. Contractual obligations Our future contractual obligations at June30, 2017 , were not materially different than at December31, 2016 . 27