Item1.Financial Statements. 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 3 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT S OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed c onsolidated financial statements. 4 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ( Unaudited ) (a) Inventory is transferred from inventory to property and equipment at cost when the Company requires additional machines for training or demonstration or for placement into on demand parts manufacturing services locations . (b) In general, an asset is transferred from property and equipment, net , into inventory at its net book value when the Company has identified a potential sale for a used machine. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 5 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 3 D SYSTEMS CORPORATION NOTESTO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (1)Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 3D Systems Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") applicable to interim reports. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 5 ("Form10-K") . In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of adjustments of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain prior period amounts presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. All amounts presented in the accompanying footnotes are presented in thousands, except for per share information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (" FASB ") issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, " Leases (Topic 842) " ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising from operating leases on the balance sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 , including interim periods within those fiscal years . The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements . In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, " Stock Compensation (Topic 718) " ("ASU 2016-09"). ASU 2016-09 simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 201 6 and interim periods within those annual periods . Early adoption is permitted for any interim or annual period . The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the i mpact of adoption of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements . No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first quarter of 2016 , have had or are expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (2) Acquisitions No acquisitions were made in the first quarter of 201 6 . (3)Inventories Components of inventories, net as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: 7 (4)Property and Equipment Property and equipment , net, as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (a) Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of (i) their estimated useful lives and (ii) the estimated or contractual life of the related lease. For the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , depreciation expense on property and equipment was $6,000 and $4,709 , respectively . (5)Intangible Assets Intangible assets , net, other than goodwill as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 201 5 were as follows: Amortization expense related to costs incurred to internally develop and extend patents in the United States and various other countries was $84 and $75 for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively . Amortization expense related to all other intangible assets was $8,735 and $14, 441 for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively . Annual amortization expense for intangible assets is expected to be $35,180 , $32,233 , $27,022 , $21,737 and $17,200 for the years ending 20 16, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 , respectively. 8 (6)Accrued and Other Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Other liabilities as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (7)Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments The Company conducts business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, the Company endeavors to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on its balance sheet and those of its subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. When appropriate, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, " Derivatives and Hedging ," and therefore, all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) are recognized in " I nterest and other expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid expenses and other current assets or in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. There were no foreign currency contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015 . For the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , the condensed consolidated st atements of operations include a foreign currency transaction gain of $1,518 and a loss of $2,194 , respectively. For the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , the total impact of foreign currency translation on accumulated other compre hensive loss reflects a gain of $7,850 and a loss of $20,832 , respectively. 9 (8) Borrowings Credit Facility On October 10, 2014 , the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $150,000 five -year revolving, unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with PNC Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, PNC Capital Markets LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner, HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and the other lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Lenders"). The Credit Agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150,000 (the "Credit Facility").Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the Credit Agreement, the Company may, at its option, request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the Credit Facility by an additional $75,000 .The Credit Agreement includes provisions for the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans . The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain of the Company's material domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). From time to time, the Company may be required to cause additional material domestic subsidiaries to become Guarantors under the Credit Agreement . Generally, amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either the Base Rate or the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") , in each case, plus an applicable margin.Base Rate advances bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i)the highest of (A)the Administrative Agent's prime rate, (B)the Federal Funds Open Rate plus 0.5% or (C)the Daily LIBOR Rate for a one month interest period plus 1% , and (ii)an applicable margin that ranges from 0.25% to 0.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. LIBOR Rate advances bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR R ate for the applicable interest period, plus an applicable margin that ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, (i) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the Base Rate is payable quarterly in arrears and (ii) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the LIBOR Rate is payable in arrears on the earlier of (A) quarterly and (B) the last day of each applicable interest payment date for each loan. The Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October 10, 2019 , at which time all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Facility, including a quarterly commitment fee equal to the product of the amount of the average daily available revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement multiplied by a percentage that ranges from 0.20% to 0.25% depending upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio, as well as customary administrative fees . The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and default provisions for a Credit Facility of this type, including, but not limited to, financial covenants, limitations on liens and the incurrence of debt, covenants to preserve corporate existence and comply with laws and covenants regarding the use of proceeds of the Credit Facility. The financial covenants include a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated total funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense), as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 3.00 to 1.00, and a minimum interest coverage ratio, which is the ratio of c onsolidated EBITDA to cash interest expense, of 3.50 to 1.00.The Company is only required to be in compliance with the financial covenants as of the end of any fiscal quarter in which there are any loans outstanding at any time during such fiscal quarter. Based on the Company's current results of operations and financial covenantsset forth in the Credit Agreement, availability at March 31, 2016 would be approximately $15 0,000 . Future results may impact availability . Thepayment of dividends on the Company's common stock is restricted under provisions of the Credit Facility, which limits the amount of cash dividends that the Company may pay in any one fiscal year to $30,000 . The Company currently does not pay,and has not paid, any dividends on its common stock, and currently intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business . There was no outstanding balance on the Credit Facility as of March 31, 2016 or December 31, 201 5 . Capitalized Lease Obligations The Company's capitalized leas e obligations primarily include a lease agreement that was entered into during 2006 with respect to the Company's corporate headquarters located in Rock Hill, SC. Capitalized lease obligations decreased to $8,645 at March 31, 2016 from $8,716 at December 31, 201 5 , due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. 10 (9)Stock-based Compensation Plans Effective May19, 2004, the Company adopted its 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, as further amended and restated on February 3, 2015 (the "2004 Stock Plan") and its 2004 Restricted Stock Plan for Non- Employee Directors (the " Director Plan"). On May 19, 2015, the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Incentive Plan of 3D Systems Corporation (the "2015 Plan" and, together with the 2004 Stock Plan, the "Incentive Plans"). The 2015 Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, cash incentive awards and the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The 2015 Plan also designates measures that may be used for performance awards. Generally, awards granted prior to November 13, 2015 become fully-vested on the three -year anniversary of the grant date and awards granted after November 13, 2015 will vest one third each year over three years . The Company records stock-based compensation expense in selling, general and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Stock-based compensation expense for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 201 5 was as follows: The number of shares and units of restricted common stock awarded and the weighted average fair value per share and unit for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 201 5 were as follows: 11 (10)Loss Per Share The Company prese nts basic and diluted loss per share ("EPS") amounts. Basic EPS is ca lculated by dividing net loss attributable to 3D Systems Corporation by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted EPS is cal culated by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the applicable period. The following table reconciles basic weighted average outstanding shares to diluted weighted average outstanding for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 201 5 : (a) The calculation for a verag e outstanding diluted loss per share excludes restricted stock units since the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. (11)Fair Value Measurements ASC 820, " Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ," defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level2 - Observable inputs other than Level1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; or Level3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. For the Company, the above standard applies to cash equivalents and earnout consideration . The Company utilizes the market approach to measure fair value for its financial assets and liabilities. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: 12 (a) Cash equivalents include funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments and are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet. (b) The fair value of the earnout consideration, which is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired businesses, was derived by analyzing the future performance of the acquired businesses using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and adjusting those amounts to reflect the ability of the acquired entities to achieve the stated targets. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, th e valuations are classified in L evel 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The change in earnout consideration reflects $269 of accretion . The Company did not have any transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy during the quarter ended March 31, 2016 . In addition to the assets and liabilities included in the above table, certain of our assets and liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This includes goodwill and other intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment assessment, in addition to redeemable noncontrolling interests . For additional discussion, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Form10-K. (12)Income Taxes For the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company recorded a provision o f $1,179 and a benefit of $6,943 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rate s of 7.1 % of expense and 34.6 % of benefit , respectively. The difference in the effective tax rates is primarily attributable to valuation allowances that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company has not provided for any taxes on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest all such earnings outside of the U.S. We believe a calculation of the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings is impracticable. Tax years 1997 through 2015 remain subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, with most of the years open to examination due to the gene ration and utilization of net operating losses . The Company files income tax returns (which are open to examination beginning in the year shown in parentheses) in Australia ( 201 1 ), Belgium ( 2013 ), Brazil ( 2011 ), China ( 201 2 ), France ( 2013 ), Germany ( 2011 ), India ( 2012 ), Israel ( 2013 ), Italy ( 2012 ), Japan ( 2011 ), Korea ( 2011 ), Mexico ( 2011 ), Netherlands ( 2011 ), Switzerland ( 2011 ), the United Kingdom ( 201 4 ) and Uruguay ( 201 0 ) . (13)Segment Information The Company operates in one reportable business segment. The Company conducts its business through various offices and facilities located throughout the Asia Pacific region (Australia, China, India, Japan and Korea), Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Israel, Latin America (Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay), Russiaand the United States. The Company has historically disclosed summarized financial information for the geographic areas of operations as if they were segments in accordance with ASC 280, " Segment Reporting ." Financial information concerning the Company's geographical locations is based on the location of the selling entity. Such summarized financial information concerning the Company's geographical operations is shown in the following tables: 13 14 (14)Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space and certain furniture and fixtures under various non-cancelable operating leases. For the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , rent expense under operating leases was $3,256 and $3,204 , respectively. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 201 5 , the Company had supply commitments on printer assemblies that totaled $51,674 and $50,663 , respectively. Certain of the Company's acquisitions contain earnout and deferred payment provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts and deferred payments at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was $10,110 and $9,832 , respectively. Put Options Owners of interests in a certain subsidiary have the right in certain circumstances to require the Company to acquire either a portion of or all of the remaining ownership interests held by them. The owners' ability to exercise any such "put option" right is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including conditions requiring notice in advance of exercise. In addition, these rights cannot be exercised prior to a specified exercise date. The exercise of these rights at their earliest contractual date would result in obligations of the Company to fund the related amounts in 2019 . Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at March 31, 2016 , performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8,872 to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015.The ultimate amount payable relating to this transaction will vary because it is dependent on the future results of operations of the subject business. Litigation Securities and Derivative Litigation The Company and certain of its former executive officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative stockholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for t he District of South Carolina. The consolidated action is styled KBC Asset Management NV v. 3D Systems Corporation, et a l., Case No. 0:15-cv-02393-MGL. The Amended Consolidated Complaint (the "Complaint"), which was filed on December 9, 2015, alleges that defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by making false and misleading statements and omissions and that the former officers are control persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The Complaint was filed on behalf of stockholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between October 29, 2013, and May 5, 2015 and seeks monetary damages on behalf of the purported class. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint in its entirety on January 14, 2016, which motion is currently pending. Six related derivative complaints have been filed by purported Company stockholders against certain of the Company's former executive officers and members of its Board of Directors.The Company is named as a nominal defendant in all six actions.The derivatives complaints are styled as follows: (1) Steyn v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225, filed on July 27, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (2) Piguing v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 2015-CP-46-2396, filed on August 7, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (3) Booth v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 15-692-RGA, filed on August 6, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware ("Booth"); (4) Nally v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 15-cv-03756-MGL, filed on September 18, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina; (5) Gee v. Hull, et al. Case No. BC-610319, filed on February 17, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles; and (6) Foster v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 0:16-cv-01016-MGL, filed on April 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. 15 The derivative complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanage ment, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment and seek, among other things, monetary damages and certain corporate governance actions. Four of the derivative complaints have been stayed until the earlier of the close of discovery or the deadline for appealing a dismissal in the KBC Asset Management NV securities class action.Gee v. Hull and Foster v. Reichental have not yet been stayed. The Company believes the claims alleged in the putative securities class action and the derivative lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the Company and its officers and directors vigorously. Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation , et . al. On August 23, 2013, Ronald Barranco, a former Company employee, filed two lawsuits against the Company and certain officers in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The first lawsuit ("Barranco I") is captioned Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., and Damon Gregoire, Case No. CV 13-411 LEK RLP, and alleges seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of Print3D Corporation (of which Mr. Barranco was a 50% shareholder) and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company . The second lawsuit ("Barranco II") is captioned Ronald Barranco v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., Abraham Reichental, and Damon Gregoire, Case No. CV 13-412 LEK RLP, and alleges the same seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of certain website domains from Mr. Barranco and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company .Both Barranco I and Barranco II allege the Company breached certain purchase agreements in order to avoid paying Mr. Barranco additional monies pursuant to royalty and earn out provisions in the agreements. The Company and its officers timely filed responsive pleadings on October 22, 2013 seeking, inter alia, to dismiss Barranco I due to a mandatory arbitration agreement and for lack of personal jurisdiction and to dismiss Barranco II for lack of personal jurisdiction. With regard to Barranco I, the Hawai i district court, on February 28, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina for the convenience of the parties. However, the Hawaii court recognized that the plaintiff's claims are all subject to mandatory and binding arbitration in Charlotte, No rth Carolina. Because the Hawai i court was without authority to comp el arbitration outside of Hawai i, the court ordered that the case be transferred to the district court encompassing Charlotte (the United States District C ourt for the Western District of North Carolina) so that court could compel arbitration in Charlotte. On April 17, 2014, Barranco I was transferred in to the Western District of North Carolina. Plaintiff filed a demand for arbitration on October 29, 2014. On December 9, 2014, the Company filed its answer to plaintiff's demand for arbitration. On February 2, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended demand that removed Mr. Gregoire as a defendant from the matter and on February 4, 2015 the Company filed its amended answer. The parties selected an arbitrator and arbitration took place in June 2015 in Charlotte, North Carolina. On September 28, 2015, the arbitrator issued a final award in favor of Mr. Barranco with respect to two alleged breaches of contract and implied covenants arising out of the contract.The arbitrator found that the Company did not commit fraud or make any negligent misrepresentations to Mr. Barranco. Pursuant to the award, the Company is to pay approximately $11,282 , which includes alleged actual damages of $7,254 , fees and expenses of $2,318 and prejudgment interest of $1,710 . The Company disagrees with the single arbitrator's findings and conclusions and believes the arbitrator's decision exceeds his authority and disregards the applicable law. As an initial response, the Company filed a motion for modification on September 30, 2015, based on mathematical errors in the computation of damages and fees. On October 16, 2015, the arbitrator issued an order denying the Company's motion and sua sponte issuing a modified final award in favor of Mr. Barranco in the same above-referenced amounts, but making certain substantive changes to the award, which changes the Company believes were improper and outside the scope of his authority and the AAA rules. On November 20, 2015, the Company filed a Motion to Vacate the Arbitration Award in the federal court in the Western District of North Carolina.Claimants also filed a Motion to Confirm the Arbitration Award. Both motions have been fully briefed and are current ly pending before the court. Notwithstanding the Company's right to appeal, given the arbitrator's decision, the Company recorded an $11,282 expense provision for t his matter in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The provision is subject to adjustment based on the ultimate outcome of the Company's appeal. If it is ultimately determined that money is owed following the full appellate process in federal court, the Company intends to fund any amounts to be paid from cash on hand. This amount has been classified as a long-term liability given the customary timeline of an appeals process. The Company will review this classification periodically. With r egard to Barranco II, the Hawai i district court, on March 17, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to Sou th Carolina. However, the Hawai i court dismiss ed Count II in plaintiff's complaint alleging breach of the employment agreement.The Company filed an answer to the complaint in the Hawai i district court on March 31, 2014.On November 19, 2014, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on all claims which was heard on January 20, 2015. On January 30, 2015, the court entered an Order Granting in Part and Denying in Part the Company's motion for summary judgment. The Order narrowed the plaintiff's claim for breach of contract and dismissed the plaintiff's claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. As a result, Messrs. Reichental and Gregoire were dismissed from the lawsuit. The case was previously scheduled for trial on April 21, 2015, but has now been continued to May 17, 2016. The Company believes the claims alleged in the lawsuit are without merit and intend s to defend itself vigorously. 16 The Company is involved in various other legal matters incidental to its business. Although the Company cannot predict the results of litigation with certainty, the Company believes that the disposition of these legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. Indemnification In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual pro perty infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company's products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant, and the Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on its future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at the Company's request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, the Company has directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable the Company to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and the policy limits. There is no assurance that the policy limits will be sufficient to cover all damages, if any. (15) Accumula ted Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in the balances of accumula ted other comprehensive loss by component are as follows: The amounts presented above are included in other comprehensive income (loss) and are net of taxes. For additional information about foreign currency translation, see Note 7. (16)Noncontrolling Interests As of March 31, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 95% of the capital and voting rights of Phenix Systems, a global provider of direct metal 3D printers. Phenix Systems was acquired on July 15, 2013. As of March 31, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 70% of the capital and voting rights of Robtec, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products. Robtec was acquired on November 25, 2014. As of March 31, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 65% of the capital and voting rights of Easyway, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in China. Easyway was acquired on April 2, 2015. (17)Subsequent Events On April 1, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Mr. Vyomesh Joshi as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. On May 1, 2016, the consulting agreement between the Company and ECG Ventures, Inc., a consulting company owned by Thomas W. Erikson, a director of the Company, terminated in accordance with its terms. 17 Item2. M anagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item1 (the "Financial Statements") of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q ("Form 10-Q"). We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance that are discussed in greater detail in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors" at the end of this Item2 and that are discussed or referred to in Item1A of PartII of this Form 10-Q. Business Overview 3D Systems Corporation ("3D Systems" or the "Company" or "we" or "us") is a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1993 that operates through subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and the Asia Pacific region ("APAC" or "Asia Pacific"). We market our products and services in those areas as well as in other parts of the world. We provide comprehensive 3D products and services, including 3D printers, print materials, on demand parts manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning ("VSP "), and printing of medical and dental devices as well as patient-specific surgical instruments. Our products and services support advanced applications from the product design shop to the factory floor to the operating room. As the originator of 3D printing and a shaper of future 3D solutions, 3D Systems has spent its 30 year history enabling professionals and companies to optimize their designs, transform their workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models . Recent Developments In January 2016, we launched the ProX DMP 320 printer, designed for high precision, high throughput direct metal printing, with models that are optimized for printing with titanium, stainless steel or nickel super alloy. In January 2016, we launched the ProJet MJP 3600 printer, which prints at up to twice the speed of the previous generation. With data processing capabilities that support files up to 250% larger, the ProJet MJP 3600 brings enhanced productivity to a wide range of prototyping, casting and end-use part production needs. In January 2016, we launched the ProJet MJP 2500 printer, which combines professional grade 3D printing capabilities with an affordable, office-friendly footprint and easy part processing, the ProJet MJP 2500 is designed to enable a broader range of professionals to create precision parts without leaving their workplace. In April 2016 , our Board of Directors (the "Board") appointed Mr. Vyomesh Joshi ("VJ") as our President and Chief Executive Officer . Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Joshi, age 62, worked at Hewlett-Packard Company from 1980 until his retirement on March 21, 2012. At the time of his retirement, Mr. Joshi was serving as the Executive Vice President of Hewlett Packard Imaging and Printing Group and on Hewlett-Packard Company's executive council. Mr. Joshi currently serves on the Board of Directors of Wipro Ltd. and Harris Corporation and served on the Board of Directors at Yahoo! Inc. from 2005 to 2012 . Summary of 2016 financial results We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. Total consolidated r evenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 decreased by 5.1%, or $8.2 million, to $152.6 million, compared to $160.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. These results primarily reflect a decrease in products revenue and the discontinuation of consumer products and services, partially offset by an increase in materials and services revenue, as further discussed below . As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , our backlog was $38.4 million, compared to backlog of $37.8 million at March 31, 2015. Backlog is primarily dependent on timing of orders and customers' requested deliveries . In addition, on demand parts manufacturing services lead time and backlog depends on whether orders are for rapid prototyping or longer-range production runs . As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, backlog included $9.9 million of on demand parts manufacturing service orders, compared to $14.1 million at March 31, 2015. Healthcare revenue includ es sales of products, materials and services for health-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments an d medical and dental devices . For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, healthcare revenue increased by 11.6 %, to $33.5 million, and made up 21.9% of total revenue , compared to $30.0 million, or 18.7% of total revenue for th e quarter ended March 31, 2015. The increase in healthcare revenue reflects increased products and serv ices sales that were driven by customers increasing their investments and expanding their capabilities in precision healthcare . 18 Gros s profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 decreased by 1.9 %, or $1.5 million, to $77.5 million, compared to $79.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, reflecting lower revenue from products, partially offset by an increase in materials and services revenue. Gross profit margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 was 50.8%, compared to 49.1% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, reflecting an increase in materials and services margins, partially o ffset by lower products margins reflecting lower sales volume of 3D printers, which more than offset the benefit from the discontinuation of consumer products in the fourth quarter of 2015. O perating expenses decreased by 2.3%, to $94.3 million, compared to $96.5million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. These results primarily reflect lower amortization expense , in addition to lower research and development expenses, as further discussed below. Our operating loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 was $16.8 million , compared to an operating loss of $17.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, reflecting lower operating expenses that were partially offset by lower gross profit as further discussed below . Our operating activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 generated $18.1 mil lion of cash, which is discussed in further detail below. We used $4.5 million to fund our strategic investing activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. Financing activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 used $1.1 million of cash. In total, our unrestricted cash balance at March 31, 2016 was $169.8 million, compared to $155.6 million at December 31, 2015. Results of Operations Quarter Comparison First quarter comparison of revenue by class of product and service Table 1 below sets forth revenue and percentage of revenue by class of product and service : Table 1 Total consolidated revenue decreased by 5.1 %, due to a decrease in products revenue, partially offset by an increase in materials and services revenue. The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers and design tools including software products, scanners and haptic devices. The decrease in products revenue was primarily driven by lower sales of 3D printers and the discontinuation of consumer products . For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, software revenue, including scanners and haptic devices, contributed $9.8 million, compared to $8.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, primarily reflecting expanded software products from our acquisition of Cimatron in 2015. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced professional printer sales in any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles . The increase in materials revenue was primarily driven by increased demand which was partially offset by the company's shift away from consumer . For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, sales of integrated materials increased by 2.1 % to $29.3 million, or 76.1% of total materials revenue, compared to $28.7 million, or 77.3% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. 19 The services category includes warranty and maintenance on 3D printers and simulators, software maintenance, on demand parts manufacturing services and healthcare services. The increase in services revenue reflects increased demand for healthcare services and our expanded software offering, which were partially offset by a decrease in on demand parts manufacturing services . For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, services revenue from on demand parts manufacturing services decreased 15.2% to $26.8 million, compared to $31.6 for quarter ended March 31, 2015 . For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, software services contributed $10.5 million of revenue, compared to $7.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, primarily related to our expanded software offering from an acquisition in 2015 . In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies . As used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically related to changes in unit volume. Change in first quarter revenue by geographic region Table 2 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic area for the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015: Table 2 The decrease i n revenue in the Americas and EMEA regions primarily reflect s the unfavorable impact of mix and foreign currency translation , while continued macroeconomic weaknesses compressed rev enue in the Asia Pacific region. Revenue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific, was 49.8% of total revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 , compared to 49.3%for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation on revenue outside the U.S. would result in a decline of 4.1% for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 3 sets forth gross profit and gross profit margin for our products and services for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015: Table 3 Total consolidated gross profit decreased, primarily driven by to lower products revenue, as discussed below. Gross profit margin for products decreased primarily due to lower sales volume of 3D printers, which more than offset increased contributions from higher margin software and the benefit from the discontinuation of consumer products . 20 Gross profit margin for materials increased, reflecting higher sales of materials during the period and improved supply chain efficiencies in materials production . Gross profit margin for services increased primarily due to the increased contribution of higher margin healthcare and software services, including Cimatron software we acquired in 2015 . On demand parts manufacturing services gross profit margin decreased to 41.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to 44.4 % for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 in connection with lower revenue and facility consolidation activity . Operating expenses Table 4 sets forth the components of operating expenses for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015: Table 4 Total operating expenses decreased, reflecting lower selling, general and administrative expenses and lower research and development expenses, as discussed below. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreasedprimarily due to a $5.7 million decrease in amortization and a $1.1 million decrease in legal fees, partially offset by a $6.1 million increase in compensation costs due to acquisitions and increased staffing. Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to a $1.1 million decrease in outside services associated with product development and a $0.5 million decrease in materials purchases, partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in compensation costs related to acquisitions and increased staffing. Loss from operations Table 5 sets forth operating loss by geographic area for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015: Table 5 The improvement in operating loss was due to lower operating expenses, which was partially offset by lower revenue and gross profit. See " Gross profit and gross profit margins " and " Operating expenses " above . With respect to the Americas, for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , the changes in operating income by geographic area reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating income that are discussed above . The changes in operating income in our operations outs ide the Americas for the quarter s ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 resulted primarily from transfer pricing, changes in sales volume and foreign currency translation . 21 Interest and other ( income ) expense, net Table 6 sets forth the components of interest and other ( income ) expense, net, for the first quarter s of 2016 and 2015: Table 6 Benefit and provision for income taxes For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, we recorded a $1.2 million provision for income taxes compared to a $6.9 million benefit for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 . The lower effective tax rate as compared to the first quarter of 2015 is primarily due to the valuation allowance that was recorded in fourth quarter of 2015 . Net loss Table 7 sets forth the primary components of net loss attributable to 3D Systems for the first quarter s of 2016 and 2015: Table 7 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") discussed above, management believes non-GAAP financial measures, such as adjust ed net income and earnings per share , are useful to investors in evalua ting our operating performance and facilitate a better understanding of the impact that several strategic acquisitions had on our financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures have not been prep ared in accordance with GAAP, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which costs, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP financial statements as required in our public disclosures as well as reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share to our GAAP financial measures of net income and earnings per share . Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share, are adjusted for the following : 22 Amortization of intangibles .We exclude the tax-effected amortization of intangible assets from our cost of sales and operating expenses. Acquisition and severance expenses .We exclude the tax-effected charges associated with the acquisition of businesses and the related severance expenses from our operating expenses . Non-cash stock-based compensation expenses .We exclude the tax-effected stock-based compensation expenses from operating expenses primarily because they are non-cash . Rec oncili ation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Financial Measures Ta ble 8 (a) Tax effect is calculated quarterly, based on the actual tax rate for each quarter. 23 Financial Condition and Liquidity Table 9 We believeour existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated wi th our existing operations in the foreseeable future, or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologie s.However, it is possible that, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing from financial institutions, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us.Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below . If we need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our activities, or for other reasons , and raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be diluted. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2016 included $72.1 million of cash held outside the U.S., compared to $59.0 million at December 31, 2015. Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation. Days' sales outstanding was 80 days at March 31, 2016 compared to 79 days at December 31, 2015 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due decreased to 12.9 % of gross receivables, from 17.6% at December 31, 2015. We review specific receivables quarterly to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable based on the change in days' sales outstanding. 24 The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory . The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow Table 10 summarizes the cash provided by or used in operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, as well as the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash, for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Table 10 Further discussion of changes in operating, investing and financing cash flow activities is provided below. Cash flow from operating activities Table 11 summarizes the components of cash provided by or used in operating activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Table 11 For further discu ssion of net loss , see " Net loss " above . Non-cash charges primarily consist of depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation . For further discussion of changes in working capital, see"Liquidity and Capital Resources" above. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments . 25 Cash flow from investing activities Table 12 summarizes the components of cash used in investing activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Table 12 Capital expenditures primarily consisted of expenditures for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructu re, equipment to support our on demand parts manufacturing service and printers associated with new product development efforts. Other investing activities consist of minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures, our venture investment initiative, in promising enterprises that we believe will benefit from or be powered by our technologies . Cash flow from financing activities Table 13 summarizes the components of cash provided by financing activities for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 : Table 13 Contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements Credit facilities In October 2014, we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility. The agreement provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million.Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, we may , at our option , request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility by an additional $75.0 million. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility.Based on current financial covenant limitations at March 31, 2016, availability on the c redit f acility would be approximately $150.0 million. Future results may impact availability. See Note 8 to the Financial Statements. Capitalized lease obligations Our capitalized lease obligations include a lease agre ement that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 840, "Leases," we are considered an owner of the properties, therefore, we have recorded the amounts shown below in Table 14 as building in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet. 26 Our outstanding capitalized lease obligations carrying values at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Table 14 O ther contractual arrangements Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout and deferred purchase payment provisions under which the sellers of theacquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities recorded for these earnouts and deferred payments is $10.1 million and $9.8 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. As of March 31, 2016, we have supply commitments related to printer assemblies that to tal $51.7 million compared to $50.7 million at December 31, 2015. The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require us to acquire either a portion of or all ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement, and we have a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by us at March 31, 2016, performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require us, in future periods, to pay a maximum of approximately $8.9 million to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and do not utilize any "structured debt," "special purpose," or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. There were no foreign exchange contracts at March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015. We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) in interest and other expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in interest and other expense, net, in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 27 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 ("Form 10-K"). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements . In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "anticipates," or "plans" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon management's beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performanc e or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. These factors include without limitation: competitive industry pressures; our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs; our ability to identify future, strategic acquisitions and to integrate such acquisitions into our business without disruption; our ability to acquire and enforce intellectual property rights and defend such rights against third party claims; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure; failure of our information technology infrastructure or inability to protect against cyber-attack; our ability to generate net cash flow from operations; our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; impact of global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets on our business; fluctuations in our gross profit margins, operating income or loss and/or net income or loss; our ability to efficiently conduct business outside the U.S.; our dependence on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials; our ability to manage the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries; product quality problems that result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims; our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs; our exposure to product liability claims and other claims and legal proceedings; disruption in our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions; compliance with U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations; changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations; compliance with, and related costs concerning, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; compliance with, and related expenses and challenges concerning, conflict-free minerals regulations; and the other factors discussed in the reports we file with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, including the risks and important factors set forth in additional detail in "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Certain of these and other factors are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf, whether as a result of new information, future developments, subsequent events or circumstances or otherwise.All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above. 28 Item3 .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk. For a discussion of market risks at December 31, 2015, refer to Item7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," in our Form10-K. During the first quarter of 2016, there were no material changes or developments that would materially alter the market risk assessment performed as of December 31, 2015. Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures As of March 31, 2016 , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) pursuant to Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act. These controls and procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this evaluation, including an evaluation of the rules referred to above in this Item 4, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2016 to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting There were no material changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this Form 10-Q that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting . PARTII- OTHER INFORMATION Item1 .Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in Note 14 to the Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. Item1A .Risk Factors. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form10-K. Item6 .Exhibits. 29 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 30 SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 3D Systems Corporation By /s/ David R . Styka David R. Styka Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal f inancial and accounting o fficer) (duly authorized o fficer) Date: May 5, 2016 31Item1.Financial Statements. 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 3 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT S OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed c onsolidated financial statements. 4 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ( Unaudited ) (a) Inventory is transferred from inventory to " property and equipment , net" at cost when the Company requires additional machines for training or demonstration or for placement into on demand parts manufacturing services locations . (b) In general, an asset is transferred from property and equipment, net , into inventory at its net book value when the Company has identified a potential sale for a used machine. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 5 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 3 D SYSTEMS CORPORATION NOTESTO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (1)Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 3D Systems Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") applicable to interim reports. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015("Form10-K"). In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of adjustments of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30 , 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain prior period amounts presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. All amounts presented in the accompanying footnotes are presented in thousands, except for per share information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements No new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the second quarter of 2016 , have had or are expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (2 )Inventories Components of inventories, net , as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: 7 (3 )Property and Equipment Property and equipment , net, as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (a) Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of (i) their estimated useful lives and (ii) the estimated or contractual life of the related lease. D epreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $6,210 and $12,210 f or the quarter an d six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively, compared to $4,691 and $9,400 for the quarter an d six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . (4)Intangible Assets Intangible assets, net, other than goodwill, as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Amortization expense related to costs incurred to internally develop and extend patents in the United States and various other countries was $8 1 and $165 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively, compared to $76 and $151 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively. Amortization expense related to all other intangible assets was $8,779 and $17,514 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively, compared to $17,4 05 and $31, 846 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively. Annual amortization expense for intangible assets is expected to be $35,358 , $32,134 , $26,962 , $21,626 and $16,932 for the years ending 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. 8 (5 )Accrued and Other Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Other liabilities as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (6 )Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments The Company conducts business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, the Company endeavors to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on its balance sheet and those of its subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. When appropriate, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, " Derivatives and Hedging ," and therefore, all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) are recognized in "Interest and other expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid expenses and other current assets or in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. There were no foreign currency contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , the condensed consolidated st atements of operations include s a foreign currency transaction loss of $55 and a gain of $1,463 , respectively, compared to a gain of $428 an d a loss of $1,767 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , the total impact of foreign currency translation on accumulated other compre hensive loss reflects a loss of $6,611 and a gain of $1,239 , respectively, compared to a gain of $14,592 and a loss of $6,240 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively. 9 (7 ) Borrowings Credit Facility On October 10, 2014 , the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $150,000 five -year revolving, unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with PNC Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, PNC Capital Markets LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner, HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and the other lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Lenders"). The Credit Agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150,000 (the "Credit Facility").Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the Credit Agreement, the Company may, at its option, request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the Credit Facility by an additional $75,000 . The Credit Agreement includes provisions for the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain of the Company's material domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). From time to time, the Company may be required to cause additional material domestic subsidiaries to become Guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either the Base Rate or the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR"), in each case, plus an applicable margin.Base Rate advances bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i)the highest of (A)the Administrative Agent's prime rate, (B)the Federal Funds Open Rate plus 0.5% or (C)the Daily LIBOR Rate for a one month interest period plus 1% , and (ii)an applicable margin that ranges from 0.25% to 0.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. LIBOR Rate advances bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBORRate for the applicable interest period, plus an applicable margin that ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, (i) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the Base Rate is payable quarterly in arrears and (ii) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the LIBOR Rate is payable in arrears on the earlier of (A) quarterly and (B) the last day of each applicable interest payment date for each loan. The Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October 10, 2019 , at which time all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable. The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Facility, including a quarterly commitment fee equal to the product of the amount of the average daily available revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement multiplied by a percentage that ranges from 0.20% to 0.25% depending upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio, as well as customary administrative fees. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and default provisions for a Credit Facility of this type, including, but not limited to, financial covenants, limitations on liens and the incurrence of debt, covenants to preserve corporate existence and comply with laws and covenants regarding the use of proceeds of the Credit Facility. The financial covenants include a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated total funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense), as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 3.00 to 1.00, and a minimum interest coverage ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to cash interest expense, of 3.50 to 1.00.The Company is only required to be in compliance with the financial covenants as of the end of any fiscal quarter in which there are any loans outstanding at any time during such fiscal quarter. Based on the Company's current results of operations and financial covenantsset forth in the Credit Agreement, availability at June 30 , 2016 would be approximately $150,000 . Future results may impact availability. Thepayment of dividends on the Company's common stock is restricted under provisions of the Credit Facility, which limits the amount of cash dividends that the Company may pay in any one fiscal year to $30,000 . The Company currently does not pay,and has not paid, any dividends on its common stock, and currently intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business. There was no outstanding balance on the Credit Facility as of June 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015 . Capitalized Lease Obligations The Company's capitalized lease obligations primarily include a lease agreement that was entered into during 2006 with respect to the Company's corporate headquarters located in Rock Hill, SC . Capitalized lease obligations decreased to $8,481 at June 30, 2016 from $8,716 at December 31, 201 5 , due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. (8)Stock-based Compensation Plans Effective May19, 2004, the Company adopted its 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, as further amended and restated on February 3, 2015 (the "2004 Stock Plan") , and its 2004 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors , as further amended and restated on April 1, 2013 (the "Director Plan"). On May 19, 2015, the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Incentive Plan of 3D Systems Corporation (the "2015 Plan" and, together with the 2004 Stock Plan, the "Incentive Plans"). 10 The 2004 Stock Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock.The 2004 Stock Plan also designates measures that may be used for performance awards. The Director Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock for non-employee directors of the Company. The 2015 Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, cash incentive awards and the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The 2015 Plan also designates measures that may be used for performance awards. Generally, awards granted prior to November 13, 2015 become fully-vested on the three -year anniversary of the grant date and awards granted after November 13, 2015 will vest one third each year over three years. The Company records stock-based compensation expense in selling, general and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Stock-based compensation expense fo r the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows: Restricted Stock The number of shares and units of restricted common stock awarded and the weighted average fair value per share and unit for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 11 Stock Options The Company estimates the fair value of stock options and restricted stock awards with market conditions using a binomial lattice Monte Carlo simulation model. The weighted-average fair value and the assumptions used to measure fair value were as follows: Stock option activity for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was as follows: (9)Loss Per Share The Company presents basic and dilu ted loss per share amounts. Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss attributable to 3D Systems Corporation by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during th e applicable period. Diluted loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the applicable period. The following table reconciles basic weighted average outstanding shares to diluted weighted average outstanding for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: (a) The calculation for weighted average outstanding diluted loss per share excludes stock options with an exercise price that exceeds the average market price of shares during the period. Additionally, the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive due to the Company's net loss for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. In addition to unexercised stock options, there was an immaterial number of additional shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units that were excluded from the diluted share calculations because they were anti-dilutive. 12 (10)Fair Value Measurements ASC 820, " Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ," defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level2 - Observable inputs other than Level1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; or Level3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. For the Company, the above standard applies to cash equivalents and earnout consideration. The Company utilizes the market approach to measure fair value for its financial assets and liabilities. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: (a) Cash equivalents include funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments and are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet. (b) The fair value of the earnout consideration, which is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired businesses, was derived by analyzing the future performance of the acquired businesses using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and adjusting those amounts to reflect the ability of the acquired entities to achieve the stated targets. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, the valuations are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The change in earnout consideration reflects a $917 adjustment to the expected payment , partially offset by $546 of accretion. The Company did not have any transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 , Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy during the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016. In addition to the assets and liabilities included in the above table, certain of our assets and liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This includes goodwill and other intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment assessment, in addition to redeemable noncontrolling interests.For additional discussion, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Form10-K. 13 (11 )Income Taxes For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , the Company recorded a provision o f $1,700 and $2,879 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rate s of 48.4% and 14.3% of expense , respectively , compared to tax rates of 42.2% and 38.7% of b enefit for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively . The difference in the effective tax rates is primarily attributable to valuation allowances that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company has not provided for any taxes on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest all such earnings outside of the U.S. We believe a calculation of the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings is impracticable. Tax years 1997 through 2015 remain subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, with most of the years open to examination due to the generation and utilization of net operating losses. The Company files income tax returns (which are open to examination beginning in the year shown in parentheses) in Australia ( 2011 ), Belgium ( 2013 ), Brazil ( 2011 ), China ( 2012 ), France ( 2013 ), Germany ( 2011 ), India ( 2012 ), Israel ( 2013 ), Italy ( 2012 ), Japan ( 2011 ), Korea ( 2011 ), Mexico ( 2011 ), Netherlands ( 2011 ), Switzerland ( 2011 ), the United Kingdom ( 2014 ) and Uruguay ( 2010 ). (12) Segment Information The Company operates in one reportable business segment. The Company conducts its business through various offices and facilities located throughout the Asia Pacific region (Australia, China, India, Japan and Korea), Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Israel, Latin America (Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay), Russiaand the United States. The Company has historically disclosed summarized financial information for the geographic areas of operations as if they were segments in accordance with ASC 280, " Segment Reporting ." Financial information concerning the Company's geographical locations is based on the location of the selling entity. Such summarized financial information concerning the Company's geographical operations is shown in the following tables : 14 15 (13)Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space and certain furniture and fixtures under various non-cancelable operating leases. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, rent expense under operating leases was $2,919 and $6,175 , respectively, compared to $3,408 and $6,612 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had supply commitments on printer assemblies that totaled $40,634 and $50,663 , respectively. Certain of the Company's acquisitions contain earnout and deferred payment provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts and deferred payments at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was $9,468 and $9,832 , respectively. Put Options The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right in certain circumstances to require the Company to acquire either a portion of or all of the remaining ownership interests held by them. The owners' ability to exercise any such "put option" right is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including conditions requiring notice in advance of exercise. In addition, these rights cannot be exercised prior to a specified exercise date. The exercise of these rights at their earliest contractual date would result in obligations of the Company to fund the related amounts in 2019. Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at June 30, 2016, performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8,872 to the owners of such put rights that require the Company to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling i nterests on the balance sheet as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015.The ultimate amount payable relating to this transaction will vary because it is dependent on the future results of operations of the subject business. Litigation Securities and Derivative Litigation The Company and certain of its former executive officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative stockholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The consolidated action is styled KBC Asset Management NV v. 3D Systems Corporation, et al. , Case No. 0:15-cv-02393-MGL. The Amended Consolidated Complaint (the "Complaint"), which was filed on December 9, 2015, alleges that defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by making false and misleading statements and omissions and that the former officers are control persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The Complaint was filed on behalf of stockholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between October 29, 2013, and May 5, 2015 and seeks monetary damages on behalf of the purported class.Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint in its ent irety on January 14, 2016, which was denied by Memorandum Opinio n and Order dated July 25, 2016. 16 Six related derivative complaints have been filed by purported Company stockholders against certain of the Company's former executive officers and members of its Board of Directors.The Company is named as a nominal defendant in all six actions.The derivatives complaints are styled as follows: (1) Steyn v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225, filed on July 27, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (2) Piguing v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2396, filed on August 7, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (3) Booth v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-692-RGA, filed on August 6, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware ("Booth"); (4) Nally v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-cv-03756-MGL, filed on September 18, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina; (5) Gee v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC-610319, filed on February 17, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles; and (6) Foster v. Reichental,et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-01016-MGL, filed on April 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The derivative complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment and seek, among other things, monetary damages and certain corporate governance actions. All of the derivative complaints have been stayed until the earlier of the close of discovery or the deadline for appealing a dismissal in the KBC Asset Management NV securities class action. The Company believes the claims alleged in the putative securities class action and the derivative lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the Company and its officers and directors vigorously. Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, et. al. On August 23, 2013, Ronald Barranco, a former Company employee, filed two lawsuits against the Company and certain officers in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The first lawsuit ("Barranco I") is captioned Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-411 LEK RLP, and alleges seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of Print3D Corporation (of which Mr. Barranco was a 50% shareholder) and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company. The second lawsuit ("Barranco II") is captioned Ronald Barranco v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., Abraham Reichental, and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-412 LEK RLP, and alleges the same seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of certain website domains from Mr. Barranco and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company.Both Barranco I and Barranco II allege the Company breached certain purchase agreements in order to avoid paying Mr. Barranco additional monies pursuant to royalty and earn out provisions in the agreements. The Company and its officers timely filed responsive pleadings on October 22, 2013 seeking, inter alia , to dismiss Barranco I due to a mandatory arbitration agreement and for lack of personal jurisdiction and to dismiss Barranco II for lack of personal jurisdiction. With regard to Barranco I, the Hawaii district court, on February 28, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina for the convenience of the parties. However, the Hawaii court recognized that the plaintiff's claims are all subject to mandatory and binding arbitration in Charlotte, North Carolina. Because the Hawaii court was without authority to compel arbitration outside of Hawaii, the court ordered that the case be transferred to the district court encompassing Charlotte (the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina) so that court could compel arbitration in Charlotte. On April 17, 2014, Barranco I was transferred in to the Western District of North Carolina. Plaintiff filed a demand for arbitration on October 29, 2014. On December 9, 2014, the Company filed its answer to plaintiff's demand for arbitration. On February 2, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended demand that removed Mr. Gregoire as a defendant from the matter , and on February 4, 2015 the Company filed its amended answer. The parties selected an arbitrator and arbitration took place in June 2015 in Charlotte, North Carolina. On September 28, 2015, the arbitrator issued a final award in favor of Mr. Barranco with respect to two alleged breaches of contract and implied covenants arising out of the contract.The arbitrator found that the Company did not commit fraud or make any negligent misrepresentations to Mr. Barranco. Pursuant to the award, the Company is to pay approximately $11,282 , which includes alleged actual damages of $7,254 , fees and expenses of $2,318 and prejudgment interest of $1,710 . The Company disagrees with the single arbitrator's findings and conclusions and believes the arbitrator's decision exceeds his authority and disregards the applicable law. As an initial response, the Company filed a motion for modification on September 30, 2015, based on mathematical errors in the computation of damages and fees. On October 16, 2015, the arbitrator issued an order denying the Company's motion and sua sponte issuing a modified final award in favor of Mr. Barranco in the same above-referenced amounts, but making certain substantive changes to the award, which changes the Company believes were improper and outside the scope of his authority and the A merican A rbitration A ssociation rules. On November 20, 2015, the Company filed a motion to vacate the a rbitration a ward in the federal court in the Western District of North Car olina.Claimants also filed a motion to confirm the arbitration a w ard. A hearing was held on the m otions on June 29, 2016 in federal court in the Western D istrict of North Carolina. The c ourt requested supplemental briefing by the parties, which briefs wer e filed on July 11, 2016. Both m otions are not fully briefed and pending before the c ourt. 17 Notwithstanding the Company's right to appeal, given the arbitrator's decision, the Company recorded an $11,282 expense provision for this matter in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The provision is subject to adjustment based on the ultimate outcome of the Company's appeal. If it is ultimately determined that money is owed following the full appellate process in federal court, the Company intends to fund any amounts to be paid from cash on hand.This amount has been classified as a long-term liability given the customary timeline of an appeals process. The Company will review this classification periodically. With regard to Barranco II, the Hawaii district court, on March 17, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina. However, the Hawaii court dismissed Count II in plaintiff's complaint alleging breach of the employment agreement.The Company filed an answer to the complaint in the Hawaii district court on March 31, 2014.On November 19, 2014, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on all claims which was heard on January 20, 2015. On January 30, 2015, the court entered an order granting in part and d enying in Part the Company's motion for summary judgment. The Order narrowed the plaintiff's claim for breach of contract and dismissed the plaintiff's claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. As a result, Messrs. Reichental and Gregoire were dismissed from the lawsuit. The case was tried to a jury in May 2016, and on May 27, 2016 the jury found that the Company was not liable for either breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Additionally, the jury found in favor of the Company on its counterclaim against Mr. Barranco and determined that Mr. Barranco violated his non-competition covenant with the Company. The Court is expected to order an accounting with respect to the counterclaim. The Company is involved in various other legal matters incidental to its business. Although the Company cannot predict the results of litigation with certainty, the Company believes that the disposition of these legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. Indemnification In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company's products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant, and the Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on its future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at the Company's request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, the Company has directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable the Company to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and the policy limits. There is no assurance that the policy limits will be sufficient to cover all damages, if any. (14 ) Accumula ted Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in the balances of accumula ted other comprehensive loss by component are as follows: The amounts presented above are included in other comprehensive income (loss) and are net of taxes. For additional information about foreign currency translation, see Note 6 . (15 )Noncontrolling Interests As of June 30, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 95% of the capital and voting rights of Phenix Systems, a global provider of direct metal 3D printers. Phenix Systems was acquired on July 15, 2013 . As of June 30, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 70% of the capital and voting rights of Robtec, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products. Robtec was acquired on November 25, 2014 . As of June 30, 2016 , the Company owned approximately 65% of the capital and voting rights of Easyway, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in China. Easyway was acquired on April 2, 2015 . 18 (16 )Subsequent Events Effective July 1 , 2016, the Board of Directo rs of the Company appointed Mr. John N. McMullen as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer . On July 26, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Mr. Vyomesh Joshi, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, as a director of the Company. Mr. Joshi will serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company and until his successor has been elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. Item2. M anagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item1 (the "Financial Statements") of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q ("Form 10-Q"). We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance that are discussed in greater detail in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors" at the end of this Item2 and that are discussed or referred to in Item1A of PartII of this Form 10-Q . Business Overview 3D Systems Corporation ("3D Systems" or the "Company" or "we" or "us") is a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1993 that operates through subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and the Asia Pacific region ("APAC" or "Asia Pacific"). We market our products and services in those areas as well as in other parts of the world. We provide comprehensive 3D products and services, including 3D printers, print materials, on demand manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning ("VSP "), and printing of medical and dental devices as well as patient-specific surgical instruments. Our products and services support advanced applications from the product design shop to the factory floor to the operating room. 3D Systems has a 30 year history of enabling professionals and companies to optimize their designs, transform their workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models . Recent Developments In June 2016 , our Board of Directors (the "Board") appointed Mr. John N. McMullen as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective July 1, 2016 . Prior to joining the Company, Mr. McMullen served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Eastman Kodak Company since June 15, 2014. Prior to joining Kodak, Mr. McMullen worked at Hewlett Packard Company and its acquired companies, Compaq Computer and Digital Equipment Corporation, for 32 years. From 2007 to 2013, he served as Senior Vice President of Finance at HP, and from 2002 to 2007, Mr. McMullen served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of HP's Imaging and Printing Group . Second Quarter Highlights Total consolidated r evenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 decreased by 7.3% , or $12.4 million, to $158.1 million, compared to $170.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 . These results primarily reflect a decrease in products and services revenue , partially offset by an increase in materials revenue, as further discussed below . As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , our backlog was $35.1 million and $38.4 million, respectively , compared to backlog of $38 .8 million at June 30, 2015 . Backlog is primarily dependent on timing of orders and customers' requested deliveries . As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, backlog included $9.2 million and $13.0 million of on demand parts manufacturing service orders, respectively, compared to $13.4 million at June 30, 2015 . Healthcare revenue includ es sales of products, materials and services for health-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments an d medical and dental devices . For the quarter ended June 30, 2016 , healthcare revenue increased by 11.4 %, to $38.8 million, and made up 24.5% of total revenue , compared to $34.8 million , or 20.4 % of total revenue for th e quarter ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in healthcare revenue reflects increased materials and serv ices sales in healthcare-related applications that were driven by customers increasing their investments and expanding their capabilities in precision healthcare . Gros s profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 decreased by 1.5 %, or $1.2 million, to $80.4 million, compared to $81.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 , reflecting lower revenue from products and services , partially offset by an increase in materials revenue. Gross profit margin for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 was 50.9 %, compared to 47.9 % for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 , reflecting an increase in products margins , partially o ffset by lower materials and services margins. 19 O perating expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 decreased by 20.2 %, to $84.1 million, compared to $105.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 . These results primarily reflect lower amortization expense , in addition to lower research and development expenses, as further discussed below. Our operating loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 was $3.7 million , compared to an operating loss of $23.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 , reflecting lower operating expenses and improved gross profit margin, as further discussed below . Our operating activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 generated $31.0 mil lion of cash, which is discussed in further detail below. We used $9.4 million to fund our strategic investing activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 . Financing activities for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 used $1.8 million of cash. In total, our unrestricted cash balance at June 30, 2016 was $176.2 million, compared to $155.6 million at December 31, 2015. Results of Operations C omparison of revenue by cla ss We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers and design tools including software products, scanners and haptic devices. The materials category includes a wide range of print materials to be used with our 3D printers , the majority of which are proprietary. The services category includes warranty and maintenance on 3D printers and simulators, software maintenance, on demand parts manufacturing services and healthcare services. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced professional printer sales in any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") . In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically related to changes in unit volume. Table 1 and Table 2 below set forth c hange in revenue by class for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively. Table 1 Table 2 For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, t otal consolidated revenue decreased by 7.3 % and 6.2 %, respectively , driven by lower products and services revenue, partially offset by higher materials revenue. 20 The decrease in products revenue for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily driven by lower sales of 3D printers and the discontinuation of consumer products , combined with the unfavorable impact of mix . For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , software revenue included in the products category , including scanners and haptic devices, contributed $11. 1 million and $20 . 9 million, respectively, compared to $12.7 and $21.6 million for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . The increase in materials revenue for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily driven by increased demand for materials which was partially offset by the impact of lower printer sales, which typically include the sale of materials . For the quarter ended June 30, 2016 , sales of integrated materials increased by 13.3 % to $31.9 million, or 78.5 % of total materials revenue, compared to $28.1 million, or 77.2 % for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 . For the six months ended June 30, 2016, sales of integrated materials increased by 7.6 % to $61.1 million, or 77.3 % of total materials revenue, compared to $56.8 million, or 77.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease in services revenue for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 is driven by a decrease in on demand parts manufacturing services . For the quarter ended June 30, 2016 , services revenue from on demand parts manufacturing services decreased 20.2 % to $27.1 million, compared to $33.9 million for quarter ended June 30, 2015 . For the six months ended June 30, 2016, services revenue from on demand parts manufacturing services decreased 17.8 % to $53.9 millio n, compared to $65.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , software revenue included in the services category contributed $10.9 million and $21.3 million of revenue, respectively, compared to $7.7 million and $15.4 million for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . Comparison of revenue by geographic region Table 3 and Table 4 below set for th c hange in revenue by geographic area for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , respectively. Table 3 Table 4 21 The decrease in revenue in all geographic regions for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily reflects lower sales of 3D printers and on demand parts manufacturing services, partially offset by increased sales from materials, software and healt hcare services . For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, r ev enue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific, was 51. 7 % and 50. 7 % of total revenue , respectively, compared to 47.0 % and 46.7% for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 5 and Table 6 below set forth g ross profit and gross profit margin for the quarter s and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 5 Table 6 Total consolidated gross profit for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 d ecreased, primarily driven by lower products and services revenue . Gross profit margin for products increased for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to the benefit from the discon tinuation of consumer products, coupled with sales mix, partially offset by facility consolidation expenses in the second quarter . Gross profit margin for materials decreased f or the quarter ended June 30, 2016 , reflecting the unfavorable impact of mix, partially offset by improved supply chain efficiencies, while gross profit margin for materials increased for the six months ended June 30, 2016 . Gross prof it margin for services decreased for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , primarily driven by higher printer service costs. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, o n demand parts manufacturing services gross profit margin was 46.9 % and 44.4 %, respectively, compared to 45.3 % and 44.9 % for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively . 22 Operating expenses Table 7 and Table 8 below set forth c omponents of operating expenses for the quarter s and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 7 Table 8 Total operating expenses decreased for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , reflecting lower selling, general and administrative expenses and lower research and development expenses, as discussed below. Second quarter For the quarter ended June 30, 2016, s elling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to an $8.6 million dec rease in amortization expense, a $2.8 million decrease in compensation costs , primarily as a result of the timing of stock based compensation expense , a $2.0 million decrease in bad debt expense and a $1.4 million decrease in marketing costs . For the quarter ended June 30, 2016, research and development expenses decreased primarily due to a $1.9 million decrease in materials purchases, a $1.7 million decrease in outside services associated with product development and a $1.3 million decrease in compensation costs. Six months For the six months ended June 30, 2016, selling, general and administrative expens es decreasedprimarily due to a $14.3 million d ecrease in amortization expense and a $1.7 million decrease in marketing costs . For the six months ended June 30, 2016, research and development expense s decreased primarily due to a $2.8 million decrease in outside services associated with product development and a $2.5 million decrease in materials purchases . 23 Loss from operations Table 9 below sets forth o perating loss by geographic area for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 9 The improvement in operating loss for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 was due to lower operating expenses, which was partially offset by lower revenue and gross profit. See " Gross profit and gross profit margins " and " Operating expenses " above . With respect to the Americas, for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , the changes in operating income (loss) by geographic area reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating income (loss) that are discussed above . The changes in operating income (loss) in our operations outs ide the Americas for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 resulted primarily from transfer pricing, changes in sales volume and foreign currency translation . Interest and other ( income ) expense, net Table 10 below sets forth c omponents of interest and other ( income ) expense, net, for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 10 Benefit and provision for income taxes For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 , we recorded a $1.7 million and $2.9 million provision for income taxes , respectively, compared to a $10.1 million and $17.0 million benefit for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 . The difference in the tax expense was primarily driven by the valuation allowance that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 in the U . S . and certain foreign jurisdiction s. 24 Net loss Table 11 and Table 12 below set forth c omponents of net loss attributable to 3D Systems for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 11 Table 12 For further discussion of income taxes, see " Benefit and provision for income taxes " above and Note 11 . Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, management believes non-GAAP financial measures, such as adjust ed net income and earnings per share , are useful to investors in evalua ting our operating performance and facilitate a better understanding of the impact that several strategic acquisitions had on our financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures have not been prep ared in accordance with GAAP, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which costs, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP financial statements as required in our public disclosures as well as reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share to our GAAP financial measures of net income and earnings per share . Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures, which adjust net income and earnings per share, are adjusted for the following : Amortization of intangibles .We exclude the tax-effected amortization of intangible assets from our cost of sales and operating expenses. Acquisition and severance expenses .We exclude the tax-effected charges associated with the acquisition of businesses and the related severance expenses from our operating expenses . 25 Non-cash stock-based compensation expenses .We exclude the tax-effected stock-based compensation expenses from operating expenses primarily because they are non-cash . R econciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Financial Measures Ta ble 13 (a) Tax effect for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and earlier periods was calculated quarterly, based on the Company's overall tax rate for each quarter. Tax effect for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 was calculated based on the Company's quarterly U.S. tax rate , which was 0% as a result of the valuation allowance that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015, in connection with GAAP net losses. Financial Condition and Liquidity Table 14 26 We believeour existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated wi th our existing operations in the foreseeable future, or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologie s.However, it is possible that, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing from financial institutions, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us.Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below . If we need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our activities, or for other reasons , and raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be diluted. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2016 included $69.1 million of cash held outside the U.S., compared to $59.0 million at December 31, 2015. Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation. Days' sales outstanding was 72 days at June 30, 2016 compared to 79 days at December 31, 2015 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due decreased to 13.9 % of gross receivables, from 17.6% at December 31, 2015. We review specific receivables quarterly to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable based on the change in days' sales outstanding. The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory . The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow Table 15 below sets forth c omponents of cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 15 Further discussion of changes in operating, investing and financing cash flow activities is provided below. Cash flow from operating activities Table 1 6 27 For further discu ssion of net loss , see " Net loss " above . Non-cash charges primarily consist of depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation , partially offset by the benefit of deferred income taxes . For further discussion of changes in working capital, see" Financial Condition and Liquidity " above. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments . Cash flow from investing activities Table 1 7 Purchases of property and equipment primarily consisted of expenditures for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructu re, equipment to support our on demand parts manufacturing service and printers associated with new product development efforts. Other investing activities consist of minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures, our venture investment initiative, in promising enterprises that we believe will benefit from or be powered by our technologies . We made no acquisitions during the quarter or six months ended June 30, 2016. Cash flow from financing activities Table 1 8 Contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements Credit facilities In October 2014, we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility. The agreement provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million.Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, we may , at our option , request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility by an additional $75.0 million. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility.Based on current financial covenant limitations at June 30, 2016 , availability on the c redit f acility would be approximately $150.0 million. Future results may impact availability. See Note 7 for additional information related to the credit facility . Capitalized lease obligations Our capitalized lease obligations include a lease agre ement that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 840, "Leases," we are considered an owner of the properties, therefore, we have reco rded the amounts shown in the table below as " building " in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet. 28 Table 19 below sets forth o utstanding capitalized leas e obligations carrying values as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. Table 19 O ther contractual arrangements Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout and deferred purchase payment provisions under which the sellers of theacquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities recorded for these earnouts and deferred payments is $9.5 million and $9.8 million at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. As of June 30, 2016 , we have supply commitments related to printer assemblies that to tal $40 .6 million compared to $50.7 million at December 31, 2015. The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require us to acquire either a portion of or all ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement, and we have a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 13 . Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by us at June 30, 2016 , performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require us, in future periods, to pay a maximum of approximately $8.9 million to the owners of such put rights that require the Company to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and do not utilize any "structured debt," "special purpose," or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. There were no foreign exchange contracts at June 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015. We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) in interest and other expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in interest and other expense, net, in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) . Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 . 29 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 ("Form 10-K"). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements . In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "anticipates," or "plans" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon management's beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performanc e or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. These factors include without limitation: competitive industry pressures; our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs; our ability to identify future, strategic acquisitions and to integrate such acquisitions into our business without disruption; our ability to acquire and enforce intellectual property rights and defend such rights against third party claims; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure; failure of our information technology infrastructure or inability to protect against cyber-attack; our ability to generate net cash flow from operations; our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; impact of global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets on our business; fluctuations in our gross profit margins, operating income or loss and/or net income or loss; our ability to efficiently conduct business outside the U.S.; our dependence on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials; our ability to manage the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries; product quality problems that result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims; our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs; our exposure to product liability claims and other claims and legal proceedings; disruption in our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions; compliance with U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations; changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations; compliance with, and related costs concerning, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; compliance with, and related expenses and challenges concerning, conflict-free minerals regulations; and the other factors discussed in the r eports we file with or furnish to the SEC from time to time, including the risks and important factors set forth in additional detail in "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Certain of these and other factors are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf, whether as a result of new information, future developments, subsequent events or circumstances or otherwise. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above. 30 Item3 .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk. For a discussion of market risks at December 31, 2015, refer to Item7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," in our Form10-K. During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, there were no material changes or developments that would materially alter the market risk assessment performed as of December 31, 2015. Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures As of June 30, 2016 , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) pursuant to Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act. These controls and procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this evaluation, including an evaluation of the rules referred to above in this Item 4, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2016 to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting There were no material changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this Form 10-Q that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting . PARTII- OTHER INFORMATION Item1 .Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in Note 13 to the Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. Item1A .Risk Factors. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form10-K. Item6 .Exhibits. 31 32 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 33 SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 3D Systems Corporation By /s/ John N. McMullen John N. McMullen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal f inancial and accounting o fficer) (duly authorized o fficer) Date: August 3 , 2016 34Item1.Financial Statements. 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 3 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT S OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed c onsolidated financial statements. 4 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ( Unaudited ) (a) Inventory is transferred from inventory to " property and equipment , net" at cost when the Company requires additional machines for training or demonstration or for placement into on demand parts manufacturing services locations . (b) In general, an asset is transferred from property and equipment, net , into inventory at its net book value when the Company has identified a potential sale for a used machine. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 5 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 3 D SYSTEMS CORPORATION NOTESTO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) ( I n thousands, except per share information ) (1)Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 3D Systems Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") applicable to interim reports. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015("Form10-K"). In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of adjustments of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain prior period amounts presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 20 16 , the FASB issued Acco unting Standards Update No. 2016-15 , " Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments " ("ASU 2016-15"). With the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice, ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow classification issues : (1) debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, (2) settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments, (3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, (4) proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, (5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies , (6) distributions received from equity method investees, (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and (8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principal . ASU 2016-15 is effective for annual reporting periods b eginning after December 15, 2017 . The amendments should be applied retrospectively with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating th e impact of adoption of ASU 2016-15 on its financial statements. No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the third quarter of 2016 , have had or are expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (2 )Inventories Components of inventories, net , as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: During the third quarter of 2016, the Company recorded an inventory reserve of $10,723 in conne ction with the disc ontinuation of certain products as a result of the Company's recently updated strategy . No reserves in connection with the discontinuation of certain products were recorded for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. 7 (3 )Property and Equipment Property and equipment , net, as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (a) Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of (i) their estimated useful lives and (ii) the estimated or contractual life of the related lease. D epreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was $6, 176 and $18,386 f or the quarter an d nine months ended September 30 , 2016, respectively, compared to $5,908 and $15,308 for the quarter an d nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company recognized impairment charges of $7,069 on property and equipment , net . No impairment charges were recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. (4)Intangible Assets Intangible assets, net, other than goodwill, as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $8, 857 and $26, 536 for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016, respectively, compared to $1 5, 843 and $47, 840 for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015, respectively. Annual amortization expense for intangible assets is expected to be $35,193 , $32,143 , $26,971 , $21,635 and $16,941 for the years ending 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. 8 (5 )Accrued and Other Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Other liabilities as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: (6 )Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments The Company conducts business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, the Company endeavors to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on its balance sheet and those of its subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. When appropriate, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, " Derivatives and Hedging ," and therefore, all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) are recognized in "Interest and other expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid expenses and other current assets or in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. There were no foreign currency contracts outstanding as of September 30 , 2016 or December 31, 2015. For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , the condensed consolidated st atements of operations include s a foreign currency transaction loss of $1,123 and a gain of $340 , respectively, compared to a gain of $126 an d a loss of $1, 641 for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , the total impact of foreign currency translation on accumulated other compre hensive loss reflects gains of $4,260 and $5,499 , r espectively, compared to losses of $9,075 and $15,315 for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively. 9 (7 ) Borrowings Credit Facility On October 10, 2014 , the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $150,000 five -year revolving, unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with PNC Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, PNC Capital Markets LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner, HSBC Bank USA, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and the other lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Lenders"). The Credit Agreement comprises a revolving loan facility that provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150,000 (the "Credit Facility").Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the Credit Agreement, the Company may, at its option, request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the Credit Facility by an additional $75,000 . The Credit Agreement includes provisions for the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain of the Company's material domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). From time to time, the Company may be required to cause additional material domestic subsidiaries to become Guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either the Base Rate or the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR"), in each case, plus an applicable margin.Base Rate advances bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (i)the highest of (A)the Administrative Agent's prime rate, (B)the Federal Funds Open Rate plus 0.5% or (C)the Daily LIBOR Rate for a one month interest period plus 1% , and (ii)an applicable margin that ranges from 0.25% to 0.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. LIBOR Rate advances bear interest at a rate based upon the LIBORRate for the applicable interest period, plus an applicable margin that ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% based upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, (i) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the Base Rate is payable quarterly in arrears and (ii) accrued interest on each loan bearing interest at the LIBOR Rate is payable in arrears on the earlier of (A) quarterly and (B) the last day of each applicable interest payment date for each loan. The Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October 10, 2019 , at which time all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable. The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Credit Facility, including a quarterly commitment fee equal to the product of the amount of the average daily available revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement multiplied by a percentage that ranges from 0.20% to 0.25% depending upon the Company's consolidated total leverage ratio, as well as customary administrative fees. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and default provisions for a Credit Facility of this type, including, but not limited to, financial covenants, limitations on liens and the incurrence of debt, covenants to preserve corporate existence and comply with laws and covenants regarding the use of proceeds of the Credit Facility. The financial covenants include a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated total funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense), as defined in the Credit Agreement, of 3.00 to 1.00, and a minimum interest coverage ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to cash interest expense, of 3.50 to 1.00.The Company is only required to be in compliance with the financial covenants as of the end of any fiscal quarter in which there are any loans outstanding at any time during such fiscal quarter. Based on the Company's current results of operations and financial covenantsset forth in the Credit Agreement, availability at September 30 , 2016 would be approximately $150,000 . Future results may impact availability. Thepayment of dividends on the Company's common stock is restricted under provisions of the Credit Facility, which limits the amount of cash dividends that the Company may pay in any one fiscal year to $30,000 . The Company currently does not pay,and has not paid, any dividends on its common stock, and currently intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business. There was no outstanding balance on the Credit Facility as of September 30 , 2016 or December 31, 2015 . Capitalized Lease Obligations The Company's capitalized lease obligations primarily include a lease agreement that was entered into during 2006 with respect to the Company's corporate headquarters located in Rock Hill, SC . Capitalized lease obligations decreased to $8,362 at September 30 , 2016 from $8,716 at December 31, 201 5 , due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. (8)Stock-based Compensation Plans Effective May19, 2004, the Company adopted its 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, as further amended and restated on February 3, 2015 (the "2004 Stock Plan") , and its 2004 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors , as further amended and restated on April 1, 2013 (the "Director Plan"). On May 19, 2015, the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Incentive Plan of 3D Systems Corporation (the "2015 Plan" and, together with the 2004 Stock Plan, the "Incentive Plans"). 10 The 2004 Stock Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights and the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock.The 2004 Stock Plan also designates measures that may be used for performance awards. The Director Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock for non-employee directors of the Company. The 2015 Plan authorizes shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, cash incentive awards and the grant of options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The 2015 Plan also designates measures that may be used for performance awards. Generally, awards granted prior to November 13, 2015 become fully-vested on the three -year anniversary of the grant date and awards granted on or after November 13, 2015 will vest one third each year over three years. The Company records stock-based compensation expense in selling, general and administrative expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Stock-based compensation expense fo r the quarters and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 was as follows: Restricted Stock Stock award activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows : During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company awarded certain employe es restricted stock under the 2015 Pla n , included in the activity above, that vests under specified market conditions. Each employee was generally awarded two equal tranches of market condition restricted stock that immediately vest s when the Company's common stock trades at either $30 or $40 per share for ninety consecutive calendar days . At Septe mber 30, 2016, there was $5,624 of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to no n-vested restricted stock awards with market conditions, which the Company expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of four years. At September 30, 2016, there was $34,859 of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to all other non-vested restricted stock award shares and units, which the Company expects to recognize over the remaining weight ed-average vesting period of 1.5 years. 11 Stock Options The Company estimates the fair value of stock options with market conditions using a binomial lattice Monte Carlo simulation model. The weighted-average fair value and the assumptions used to measure fair value were as follows: Stock option activity for the nine months ended September 30 , 2016 was as follows: During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company awarded certain employe es market condition stock options under the 2015 Pla n, included in the activity above, that vest under specified market conditions. Each employee was generally awarded two equal tranches of market condition stock options that immediately vest when the Company's common stock trades at either $30 or $40 per share for ninety consecutive calendar days . At September 30, 2016, there was $15,213 of unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options with market conditions, which the Company expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of four years. (9)Loss Per Share The Company presents basic and dilu ted loss per share amounts. Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss attributable to 3D Systems Corporation by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during th e applicable period. Diluted loss per share is calculated by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the applicable period. The following table reconciles basic weighted average outstanding shares to diluted weighted aver age outstanding for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015: The calculation for weighted average outstanding diluted loss per share excludes stock options with an exercise price that exceeds the average market pr ice of shares during the period . In addition to unexercised stock options, there was an immaterial number of additional shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units that were excluded from the diluted share calculations because they were anti-dilutive. 12 (10)Fair Value Measurements ASC 820, " Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ," defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; or Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. For the Company, the above standard applies to cash equivalents and earnout consideration. The Company utilizes the market approach to measure fair value for its financial assets and liabilities. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: (a) Cash equivalents include funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments and are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet. (b) The fair value of the earnout consideration, which is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired businesses, was derived by analyzing the future performance of the acquired businesses using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and adjusting those amounts to reflect the ability of the acquired entities to achieve the stated targets. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, the valuations are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The change in earnout consideration from December 31, 2015 to September 30, 2016 reflects a $917 adjustment to the expected payment , partially offset by $807 of accretion. The Company did not have any transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 , Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy during the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016. In addition to the assets and liabilities included in the above table, certain of our assets and liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This includes goodwill and other intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment assessment, in addition to redeemable noncontrolling interests.For additional discussion, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Form10-K. 13 (11 )Income Taxes For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , the Company recorded a benefit o f $2,214 and a provision of $665 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rate s of 9.4% of benefit and 1.5% of expense , respectively , compared to tax rates of 9.8 % and 25.7 % of b enefit for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015, respectively . The difference in the effective tax rates is primarily attributable t o valuation allowances that the Company recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions , as well as an adjustment that was recorded during th e third quarter of 2016 in connection with completion of the Company's tax return s , which resulted in a tax benefit . The Company has not provided for any taxes on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest all such earnings outside of the U.S. The Company believe a calculation of the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings is impracticable. Tax years 2003 through 2015 remain subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, with most of the years open to examination due to the generation and utilization of net operating losses. The Company files income tax returns (which are open to examination beginning in the year shown in parentheses) in Australia (2012), Belgium (2013), Brazil (2011), China (2013), France (2013), Germany (2012), India (2013), Israel (2012), Italy (2011), Japan (2011), Korea (2011), Mexico (2011), Netherlands (2011), Switzerland (2011), the United Kingdom (2015) and Uruguay (2011) . (12) Segment Information The Company operates in one reportable business segment. The Company conducts its business through various offices and facilities located throughout the Asia Pacific region (Australia, China, India, Japan and Korea), Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Israel, Latin America (Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay), Russiaand the United States. The Company has historically disclosed summarized financial information for the geographic areas of operations as if they were segments in accordance with ASC 280, " Segment Reporting ." Financial information concerning the Company's geographical locations is based on the location of the selling entity. Such summarized financial information concerning the Company's geographical operations is shown in the following tables : 14 15 (13)Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space and certain furniture and fixtures under various non-cancelable operating leases. For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016, rent expense under operating leases was $3,542 and $9,717 , respectively, compared to $3, 362 and $9,974 for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015, respectively. As of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had supply commitments on printer assemblies that totaled $38,307 and $50,663 , respectively. Certain of the Company's acquisitions cont ain earnout provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts at September 30 , 2016 was $9,563 . At December 31, 2015, in addition to earnout provisions, certain of the Company's acquisitions also contained deferred purchase payment arrangements. The total liability recorded for these earnouts and deferred purchase payment arrangements totaled $9,832 at December 31, 2015 . Put Options The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right in certain circumstances to require the Company to acquire either a portion of or all of the remaining ownership interests held by them. The owners' ability to exercise any such "put option" right is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including conditions requiring notice in advance of exercise. In addition, these rights cannot be exercised prior to a specified exercise date. The exercise of these rights at their earliest contractual date would result in obligations of the Company to fund the related amounts in 2019. Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at September 30 , 2016 performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8 ,872 to the owners of such put rights that require the Company to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling i nterests on the balance sheet as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015.The ultimate amount payable relating to this transaction will vary because it is dependent on the future results of operations of the subject business. Litigation Securities and Derivative Litigation The Company and certain of its former executive officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative stockholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The consolidated action is styled KBC Asset Management NV v. 3D Systems Corporation, et al. , Case No. 0:15-cv-02393-MGL. The Amended Consolidated Complaint (the "Complaint"), which was filed on December 9, 2015, alleges that defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by making false and misleading statements and omissions and that the former officers are control persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The Complaint was filed on behalf of stockholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between October 29, 2013, and May 5, 2015 and seeks monetary damages on behalf of the purported class.Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint in its entirety on January 14, 2016, which was denied by Memorandum Opinion and Order date d July 25, 2016 (the "Order"). Defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the Order on August 4, 2016, which is currently pending. 16 Nine related derivative complaints have been filed by purported Company stockholders against certain of the Company's former executive officers and members of its Board of Directors.The Company is named as a nominal defendant in all nine actions. The derivatives complaints are styled as follows: (1) Steyn v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225, filed on July 27, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (2) Piguing v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2396, filed on August 7, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina; (3) Booth v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-692-RGA, filed on August 6, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware ("Booth"); (4) Nally v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-cv-03756-MGL, filed on September 18, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina; (5) Gee v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC-610319, filed on February 17, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles; (6) Foster v. Reichental,et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-01016-MGL, filed on April 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina; (7) Lu v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC629730, filed on August 5, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles; (8) Howes v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-2810-MGL, filed on August 11, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina; and (9) Ameduri v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-02995-MGL, filed on September 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The derivative complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment and seek, among other things, monetary damages and certain corporate governance actions. The first six of the derivative complaints listed above have been stayed until the earlier of the close of discovery or the deadline for appealing a dismissal in the KBC Asset Management NV securities class action. The Company believes the claims alleged in the putative securities class action and the derivative lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the Company and its officers and directors vigorously. Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, et. al. On August 23, 2013, Ronald Barranco, a former Company employee, filed two lawsuits against the Company and certain officers in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The first lawsuit ("Barranco I") is captioned Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-411 LEK RLP, and alleges seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of Print3D Corporation (of which Mr. Barranco was a 50% shareholder) and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company. The second lawsuit ("Barranco II") is captioned Ronald Barranco v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., Abraham Reichental, and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-412 LEK RLP, and alleges the same seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of certain website domains from Mr. Barranco and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company.Both Barranco I and Barranco II allege the Company breached certain purchase agreements in order to avoid paying Mr. Barranco additional monies pursuant to royalty and earn out provisions in the agreements. The Company and its officers timely filed responsive pleadings on October 22, 2013 seeking, inter alia , to dismiss Barranco I due to a mandatory arbitration agreement and for lack of personal jurisdiction and to dismiss Barranco II for lack of personal jurisdiction. With regard to Barranco I, the Hawaii district court, on February 28, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina for the convenience of the parties. However, the Hawaii court recognized that the plaintiff's claims are all subject to mandatory and binding arbitration in Charlotte, North Carolina. Because the Hawaii court was without authority to compel arbitration outside of Hawaii, the court ordered that the case be transferred to the district court encompassing Charlotte (the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina) so that court could compel arbitration in Charlotte. On April 17, 2014, Barranco I was transferred in to the Western District of North Carolina. Plaintiff filed a demand for arbitration on October 29, 2014. On December 9, 2014, the Company filed its answer to plaintiff's demand for arbitration. On February 2, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended demand that removed Mr. Gregoire as a defendant from the matter , and on February 4, 2015 the Company filed its amended answer. The parties selected an arbitrator and arbitration took place in June 2015 in Charlotte, North Carolina. On September 28, 2015, the arbitrator issued a final award in favor of Mr. Barranco with respect to two alleged breaches of contract and implied covenants arising out of the contract.The arbitrator found that the Company did not commit fraud or make any negligent misrepresentations to Mr. Barranco. Pursuant to the award, the Company is to pay approximately $11,282 , which includes alleged actual damages of $7,254 , fees and expenses of $2,318 and prejudgment interest of $1,710 . The Company disagrees with the single arbitrator's findings and conclusions and believes the arbitrator's decision exceeds his authority and disregards the applicable law. As an initial response, the Company filed a motion for modification on September 30, 2015, based on mathematical errors in the computation of damages and fees. On October 16, 2015, the arbitrator issued an order denying the Company's motion and sua sponte issuing a modified final award in favor of Mr. Barranco in the same above-referenced amounts, but making certain substantive changes to the award, which changes the Company believes were improper and outside the scope of his authority and the American Arbitration Association rules. On November 20, 2015, the Company filed a motion to vacate the arbitration award in the federal court in the Western District of North Carolina.Claimants also filed a motion to confirm the arbitration award. A hearing was held on the motions on June 29, 2016 in federal court in the Western District of North Carolina. The court requested supplemental briefing by the parties, which briefs were filed on July 11, 2016. 17 On August 31, 2016, the court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part Plaintiff's motion to confirm the arbitration award and for judgment, entering judgment in the principal amount of the arbitration award and denying Plaintiff's motion for fees and costs.The court denied the Company's motion to vacate.On September 7, 2016, Plaintiff filed a motion to amend the judgment to include prejudgment interest.The Company opposed that motion and the parties submitted briefing, which is currently pending before the court. On September 28, 2016 the Company filed a motion to alter or amend the judgment.Plaintiff opposed the motion and the parties submitted briefing, which is currently pending before the court. Notwithstanding the Company's right to appeal, given the arbitrator's decision, the Company recorded an $11,282 expense provision for this matter in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The provision is subject to adjustment based on the ultimate outcome of the Company's appeal. If it is ultimately determined that money is owed following the full appellate process in federal court, the Company intends to fund any amounts to be paid from cash on hand.This amount has been classified as a long-term liability given the customary timeline of an appeals process. The Company will review this classification periodically. With regard to Barranco II, the Hawaii district court, on March 17, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina. However, the Hawaii court dismissed Count II in plaintiff's complaint alleging breach of the employment agreement.The Company filed an answer to the complaint in the Hawaii district court on March 31, 2014.On November 19, 2014, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on all claims which was heard on January 20, 2015. On January 30, 2015, the court entered an order granting in part and d enying in Part the Company's motion for summary judgment. The Order narrowed the plaintiff's claim for breach of contract and dismissed the plaintiff's claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. As a result, Messrs. Reichental and Gregoire were dismissed from the lawsuit. The case was tried to a jury in May 2016, and on May 27, 2016 the jury found that the Company was not liable for either breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Additionally, the jury found in favor of the Company on its counterclaim against Mr. Barranco and determined that Mr. Barranco violated his non-competition covenant with the Company. The Court is expected to order an accounting with respect to the counterclaim. The Company is involved in various other legal matters incidental to its business. Although the Company cannot predict the results of litigation with certainty, the Company believes that the disposition of these legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. Indemnification In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company's products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant, and the Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on its future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at the Company's request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, the Company has directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable the Company to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and the policy limits. There is no assurance that the policy limits will be sufficient to cover all damages, if any. (14 ) Accumula ted Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in the balances of accumula ted other comprehensive loss by component are as follows: The amounts presented above are included in other comprehensive income (loss). For additional information about foreign currency translation, see Note 6 . (15 )Noncontrolling Interests As of September 30 , 2016 , the Company owned approximately 95% of the capital and voting rights of Phenix Systems, a global provider of direct metal 3D printers. Phenix Systems was acquired on July 15, 2013 . 18 As of September 30 , 2016 , the Company owned approximately 70% of the capital and voting rights of Robtec, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products. Robtec was acquired on November 25, 2014 . As of September 30 , 2016 , the Company owned approximately 65% of the capital and voting rights of Easyway, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in China. Easyway was acquired on April 2, 2015 . Item2. M anagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item1 (the "Financial Statements") of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q ("Form 10-Q") and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance that are discussed in greater detail in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors" at the end of this Item2 and that are discussed or referred to in Item1A of PartII of this Form 10-Q . Business Overview 3D Systems Corporation ("3D Systems" or the "Company" or "we" or "us") is a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1993 that operates through subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and the Asia Pacific region ("APAC" or "Asia Pacific"). We market our products and services in those areas as well as in other parts of the world. We provide comprehensive 3D products and services, including 3D printers, print materials, on demand manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning ("VSP "), and printing of medical and dental devices as well as patient-specific surgical instruments. Our products and services support advanced applications from the product design shop to the factory floor to the operating room. 3D Systems has a 30 year history of enabling professionals and companies to optimize their designs, transform their workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models . Recent Developments In September 2016, we unveiled our new strategy and discussed the digital manufacturing workflow solutions we provide through our products and services , as well as strategic partnerships and new members of our management team . We believe our strategy will better enable our customers to leverage solutions and transition from prototyping to production with 3D printing. For more information, visit our website at www.3DSystems.com . Third Quarter Highlights Total consolidated r evenue for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 increased by 3.2% , or $4.8 million, to $156.4 million, compared to $151.6 million for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 . These results primarily reflect a n increase in products and materials revenue , partially offset by a decrease in services revenue, as further discussed below . As of September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , our backlog was $43.8 million and $40.5 million , respectively . Backlog is primarily dependent on timing of orders and customers' requested deliveries . As of September 30 , 2016 and 2015, backlog included $8.9 million and $12.9 million, respectively, of on demand parts manufacturing service o rders . Healthcare revenue includ es sales of products, materials and services for health-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, and printing of surgical instruments an d medical and dental devices . For the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 , healthcare revenue increased by 23.0 %, to $42.5 million, and made up 27.2% of total revenue , compared to $34. 5 million , or 22.8 % of total revenue for th e quarter ended September 30 , 2015 . The increase in healthcare revenue reflects increased products, materials and serv ices sales in healthcare-related applications that were driven by customers increasing their investments and expanding their capabilities in precision healthcare . For the quarter ended September 30, 2016, s oftware revenue from products and services increased by 10.9 %, to $21 .4 million, and made up 13.7 % of total revenue, compared to $19.3 mill ion, or 12.7 % of total revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 . Gros s profit for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 de creased by 3.0 %, or $2.1 million, to $68.9 million, compared to $71.0 million for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 , primarily reflecting charges in connection with our new strategy , partially offset by higher revenue from products and materials . 19 Gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 was 44.1 %, compared to 46.9 % for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 , reflecting a decrease in products margins that was negatively impacted by charges related to discontinued products, and lower services margins, partially offset by higher materials margins, as further discussed below . O perating expenses for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 decreased by 13.9 %, to $91.0 million, compared to $1 05.7 million for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 . These results primarily reflect lower amortization expense , in addition to lower legal expenses d ue to a provision for an arbitration award that was recorded in the third quarter of 2015 , partially offset by increased research and development expenses, as further discussed below. Our operating loss for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 was $22.0 million , compared to an operating loss of $34.6 million for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 , primarily reflecting lower operating expenses , as further discussed below . Our operating activities for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 generated $7.2 mil lion of cash . We used $4.4 million to fund our strategic investing activities for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 . Financing activities for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 used $0.5 million of cash. In total, our unrestricted cash balance at September 30 , 2016 was $179.4 million, compared to $155.6 million at December 31, 2015. Results of Operations C omparison of revenue by cla ss We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers and design tools including software products, scanners and haptic devices. The materials category includes a wide range of print materials to be used with our 3D printers , the majority of which are proprietary. The services category includes warranty and maintenance on 3D printers and simulators, software maintenance, on demand parts manufacturing services and healthcare services. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced printer s in any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") . In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: (1) the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and (2) the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically related to changes in unit volume. Table 1 and Table 2 below set forth c hange in revenue by class for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , respectively. Table 1 20 Table 2 For the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , t otal consolidated revenue increased by 3.2 % and decreased by 3.3 %, respectively , compared to the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in revenue for the quarter was driven by higher products and materials revenue , partially offset by lower services revenue . The decrease in revenue for the nine months was driven by lower products and services revenue, partially offset by higher materials revenue . The increase in products revenue for the quarter is primarily driven by an increase in sales of healthcare-related applications. The decrease in products revenue for the nine months was primarily driven by lower sales of 3D printers and the discontinuation of consumer products , combined with the unfavorable impact of mix . For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , software revenue included in the products category , including scanners and haptic devices, contributed $10. 8 million and $31. 7 million, respectively, compared to $10.4 and $32.0 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . The increase in materials revenue for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 primarily reflects an increased demand for materials driven by production customers. For the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 , sales of integrated materials increased by 7.5 % to $29.3 million, or 77.1 % of total materials revenue, compared to $27.3 million, or 78.3 % for the quarter ended September 30 , 2015 . For the nine months ended September 30 , 2016, sales of integrated materials increased by 7.6 % to $90.5 million, or 77.2 % of total mate rials revenue, compared to $84.1 million, or 77.6 % for the nine months ended September 30 , 2015. The decrease in services revenue for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was driven by a decrease in on demand parts manufacturing services . For the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 , services revenue from on demand parts manufacturing services decreased 15.7 % to $26.5 million, compared to $31.5 million for quarter ended September 30 , 2015 . For the nine months ended September 30 , 2016, services revenue from on demand parts manufacturing services decreased 17.1 % to $80.4 millio n, compared to $97.0 million for the nine months ended September 30 , 2015 . For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , software revenue included in the services category contributed $10. 6 million and $32.0 million of revenue, respectively, compared to $8.9 million and $24.3 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . 21 Comparison of revenue by geographic region Table 3 and Table 4 below set for th c hange in revenue by geographic area for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , respectively Table 3 Table 4 The incr e ase in revenue from the Americas for the quarter primarily reflects increased sales from healthcare-related applications, while the decrease in revenue for the quarter from the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions primarily reflects lower sales of 3D printers and on demand parts manufacturing services. The decrease in revenue in all geographic regions for the nine months primarily reflects lower sales of 3D printers and on demand parts manufacturing services, partially offset by increased sales from materials, software and healt hcare -related applications . For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016, r ev enue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific, was 45.8 % and 49.1 % of total revenue , respectively, compa red to 51.1 % and 50.5 % for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 5 and Table 6 below set forth g ross profit and gross profit margin for the quarter s and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 5 22 Table 6 Total consolidated gross profit for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016 de creased, primarily driven by write-down charges related to inventory and production assets in connection with our updated strategy and discontinuation of certain products.See Note 2 . Gross profit margin for products decreased for the quarter and ni ne months ended September 30, 2016 , primarily driven by charges r elated to our updated strategy. Gross profit margin for materials increased f or the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , reflecting improved supply chain efficiencies , partially offset by the unfavorable impact of mix. Gross prof it margin for services decreased for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , primarily driven by higher printer service costs and lower on-demand parts margins. For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016, o n demand parts manufacturing services gross profit margin was 43.7 % and 44.1 %, respectively, compared to 43.8 % and 44.5 % for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 , respectively . Operating expenses Table 7 and Table 8 below set forth c omponents of operating expenses for the quarter s and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 7 Table 8 Total operating expenses decreased for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , primarily reflecting lower selling, general and administrative expenses, as discussed below. 23 Third quarter For the quarter ended September 30 , 2016, s elling, general and administrative expenses decreased , primarily due to a $9. 4 million decrease in legal expenses primarily related to a provision for arbitration award recorded in the third quarter of 2015, a $7.0 million dec rease in amortization expense, and a $1.3 million decrease in compensation costs from lower stock-based compensation costs . For the quarter ended September 30 , 2016, research an d development expenses increased, primarily due to $6.1 million of charges and write-offs related to our updated strategy and re-prioritization of certain R&D projects , partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in outside services associated with product development . Nine months For the nine months ended September 30 , 2016, selling, general and administrative expens es de creased , primarily due to a $21.3 million d ecrease in amortization expense and a $9. 3 million decrease in legal expenses primarily related to a provision for arbitration award recorded in the third quarter of 2015 . For the nine months ended September 30 , 2016, research and development expense s d ecreased , primarily due to a $3.9 million decrease in outside services associated with product development , a $2.7 million decrease in overhead allocations due to facility consolidations , a $1.7 million decrease in purchased materials , and a $0.5 million decrease in compensation costs, partially offset by $6.1 million of expenses related to our updated strategy and re-prioritization of certain R&D projects . Loss from operations Table 9 below sets forth o perating loss by geographic area for the quarters and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 9 The improvement in operating loss for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 was primarily driven by lower operating expenses. See " Gross profit and gross profit margins " and " Operating expenses " above . With respect to the Americas, for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , the changes in operating income (loss) reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating income (loss) that are discussed above . The changes in operating income (loss) in our operations outs ide the Americas for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 resulted primarily from transfer pricing, changes in sales volume and foreign currency translation . 24 Interest and other ( income ) expense, net Table 10 below sets forth c omponents of interest and other ( income ) expense, net, for the quarters and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 10 Benefit and provision for income taxes For the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 , we recorded a $2.2 million benefit and $0.7 million provision for income taxes , respectively, compa red to a $3.5 million and $20.6 million benefit for the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2015 . The difference in the effective tax rates is primarily attributable to valua tion allowances that we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as an adjustment that was recorded during the third quarter of 2016 in connection with the completion of our tax return s , which resulted in a tax benefit . Net loss Table 11 and Table 12 below set forth c omponents of net loss attributable to 3D Systems for the quarters and nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 11 Table 12 For further discussion of income taxes, see " Benefit and provision for income taxes " above and Note 11 . 25 Other Financial Information In addition to our results determined under GAAP discussed above, management believes non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance and facilitate a better understanding of the impact that strategic acquisitions, non-recurring charges and certain non-cash expenses had on our financial results. These non-GAAP financial measures have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by our management about which costs, expenses and other items are excluded from our GAAP financial statements in determining our non-GAAP financial measures. We have sought to compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and expected future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP financial statements as required in our public disclosures as well as reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to our GAAP financial measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement, and be viewed in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures are adjusted to exclude the following items : Amortization and stock-based compensation . We exclude intangible asset amortization expense and non-cash stock based compensation expense . Legal and acquisition related expenses . We exclude charges associ ated with arbitration awards, litigation settlements and severance costs , in addition to charges in connection with business acquisitions, which generally include earnout amortization and other acquisition-related fees. Po rtfolio re-alignment . We exclude charges associated with discontinued product lines, strategic decisions and re-prioritization of projects . 26 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Non-GAAP Financial Measures Table 13 and Table 14 reconcile s GAAP net loss to non-GAAP financial measures for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Ta ble 13 (a) Tax effect for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and earlier periods was calculated quarterly, based on the Company's overall tax rate for each quarter. Tax effect for the quarter ended September 30 , 2016 was calculated based on the Company's quarterly U.S. tax rate , which was 0% as a result of the valuation allowance that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015, in connection with GAAP net losses. 27 Table 14 (a) Tax effect for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and earlier periods was calculated quarterly, based on the Company's overall tax rate for each quarter. Tax effect for the quarter s ended June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2016 was calculated based on the Company's quarterly U.S. tax rate , which was 0% as a result of the valuation allowance that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015, in connection with GAAP net losses . 28 Financial Condition and Liquidity Table 15 We believeour existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated wi th our existing operations in the foreseeable future, or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologie s.However, it is possible that, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing from financial institutions, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us.Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below . If we need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our activities, or for other reasons , and raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be diluted. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Cash held outside the U.S. at September 30 , 2016 was $78.0 million , or 43.5% of total cash and equivalents, compared to $59.0 million , or 37.6% of total cash and equivalents at December 31, 2015. Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation. Days' sales outstanding was 71 days at September 30 , 2016 compared to 79 days at December 31, 2015 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due decreased to 13.4 % of gross receivables, from 17.6% at December 31, 2015. We review specific receivables quarterly to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable based on the change in days' sales outstanding. 29 The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory . The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow Table 16 below sets forth c omponents of cash flow for the nine months ended September 30 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Table 16 Cash flow from operating activities Table 1 7 For further discu ssion of net loss , see " Net loss " above . Non-cash charges primarily consist of depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation , inventory reserve of discontinued products, and asset impairment , partially offset by the benefit of deferred income taxes . For further discussion of changes in working capital, see" Financial Condition and Liquidity " above. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments . 30 Cash flow from investing activities Table 1 8 Purchases of property and equipment primarily consisted of expenditures for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructu re, equipment to support our on demand parts manufacturing service and printers associated with new product development efforts. Other investing activities consist of minority investments of less than 20% made through 3D Ventures, our venture investment initiative, in promising enterprises that we believe will benefit from or be powered by our technologies . We made no acquisitions during the quarter or nine months ended September 30 , 2016. Cash flow from financing activities Table 1 9 Contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements Credit facilities In October 2014, we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility. The agreement provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million.Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, we may , at our option , request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility by an additional $75.0 million. As of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility. As of September 30, 2016, we meet all financial covenant requirements and have full availability on the c redit f acility . Future results may impact availability. See Note 7 for additional information related to the credit facility . Capitalized lease obligations Our capitalized lease obligations include a lease agre ement that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 840, "Leases," we are considered an owner of the properties, therefore, we have reco rded the amounts shown in the table below as " building " in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet. Table 20 below sets forth o utstanding capitalized leas e obligations carrying values as of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. Table 20 31 O ther contractual arrangements Certain of our acquisitions contain earnout provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts at September 30, 2016 was $9.6 million . At December 31, 2015, in addition to ear nout provisions, certain of our acquisitions also contained deferred purchase payment arrangements. The total liability recorded for these earnouts and deferred purchase pay ment arrangements totaled $9.8 million at December 31, 2015 . As of September 30 , 2016 , we have supply commitments related to printer assemblies that to tal $38.3 million compared to $50.7 million at December 31, 2015. The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require us to acquire either a portion of or all ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement, and we have a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 13.Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by us at September 30, 2016 performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require us in a future period to pay a maximum of approximately $8.9 million to the owners of such put rights. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and do not utilize any "structured debt," "special purpose," or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. There were no foreign exchange contracts at September 30 , 2016 or December 31, 2015. We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) in interest and other expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in interest and other expense, net, in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) . Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 . Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 ("Form 10-K") . 32 Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "may", "will", "estimates," "intends," "anticipates," or "plans" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology . Forward-looking statements are based upon management's beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performanc e or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. These factors include without limitation: competitive industry pressures; our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs; our ability to identify future, strategic acquisitions and to integrate such acquisitions into our business without disruption; our ability to acquire and enforce intellectual property rights and defend such rights against third party claims; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure; failure of our information technology infrastructure or inability to protect against cyber-attack; our ability to generate net cash flow from operations; our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; impact of global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets on our business; fluctuations in our gross profit margins, operating income or loss and/or net income or loss; our ability to efficiently conduct business outside the U.S.; our dependence on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials; our ability to manage the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries; product quality problems that result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims; our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs; our exposure to product liability claims and other claims and legal proceedings; disruption in our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions; compliance with U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations; changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations; compliance with, and related costs concerning, privacy, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations ; compliance with, and related expenses and challenges concerning, conflict-free minerals regulations; and the other factors discussed in the r eports we file with or furnish to the SEC from time to time, including the risks and important factors set forth in additional detail in "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Certain of these and other factors are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf, whether as a result of new information, future developments, subsequent events or circumstances or otherwise. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above. 33 Item3 .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk. For a discussion of market risks at December 31, 2015, refer to Item7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," in our Form10-K. During the quarter and nine months ended September 30 , 2016, there were no material changes or developments that would materially alter the market risk assessment performed as of December 31, 2015. Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures As of September 30 , 2016 , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) pursuant to Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act. These controls and procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this evaluation, including an evaluation of the rules referred to above in this Item 4, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30 , 2016 to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting There were no material changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this Form 10-Q that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting . PARTII- OTHER INFORMATION Item1 .Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in Note 13 to the Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. Item1A .Risk Factors. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form10-K. Item6 .Exhibits. 34 35 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 36 SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 3D Systems Corporation By /s/ John N. McMullen John N. McMullen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal f inancial and accounting o fficer) (duly authorized o fficer) Date: November 3 , 2016 37Item1.Financial Statements. 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 3 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT S OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed c onsolidated financial statements. 4 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ( Unaudited ) (a) Inventory is transferred from inventory to property and equipment at cost when the Company requires additional machines for training or demonstration or for placement into on-demand parts manufacturing services locations . (b) In general, an asset is transferred from property and equipment, net , into inventory at its net book value when the Company has identified a potential sale for a used machine. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 5 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 3 D SYSTEMS CORPORATION NOTESTO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (1)Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 3D Systems Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") applicable to interim reports. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 ("Form10-K") . In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of adjustments of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain prior period amounts presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. All amounts presented in the accompanying footnotes are presented in thousands, except for per share information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In the first quarter of 2017, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-09, " Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting ". The following summarizes the effects of the adoption on the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements: Forfeitures - Prior to adoption, share-based compensation expense was recognized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, such that expense was recognized only for share-based awards that were expected to vest. A forfeiture rate was estimated annually and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differed from initial estimates. Upon adoption, the Company will no longer apply a forfeiture rate and instead will account for forfeitures as they occur. The change was applied on a m odified retrospective basis resulting in a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings of $10,206 as of January 1, 2017. Prior periods have not been adjusted. Statement of Cash Flows - The Company historically accounted for excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation on the Statement of Cash Flows as a financing activity. Upon adoption of this standard, excess tax benefits are classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity. The Company has elected to adopt this portion of the standard on a prospective basis beginning in 2017. Prior periods have not been adjusted. Income taxes - Upon adoption of this standard, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to share-based compensation are recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. The tax effects of exercised or vested awards are treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur. Prior periods have not been adjusted. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, " Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715):Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost " ("ASU 2017-07"), which standardizes the presentation of net benefit cost in the income statement and on the components eligible for capitalization in assets. ASU 2017-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those annual periods. The amendments in ASU 2017-07 should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of 2018 and does not expect the implementation of this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. 7 In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, " Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350):Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment " ("ASU 2017-04"), which eliminates the performance of Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. In performing its annual or interim impairment testing, an entity will instead compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize any impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating when it will adopt ASU 2017-04 and its impact on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, " Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory " ("ASU 2016-16"). ASU 2016-16 permits the recognition of income tax consequences related to an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those annual periods.Early adoption is permitted for any interim or annual period. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of ASU 2016-16 on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, " Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments " ("ASU 2016-15"). With the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice, ASU 2016-15 addresses the manner in which certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The amendments should be applied retrospectively with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, " Leases (Topic 842) " ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising from operating leases on the balance sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Though still evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-02, the Company expects changes to its balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities related to its real estate leases, but it does not anticipate material impacts to its results of operations or liquidity. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date " ("ASU 2015-14"), a revision to Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", which was originally issued on May 28, 2014. For public business entities, certain not-for-profit entities, and certain employee benefit plans, the effective date was for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. ASU 2015-14 will defer these effective dates for all entities by one year. During 2016, the Company continued its evaluation of ASU 2014-09, including the expected impact on its business processes, systems and controls, and potential differences in the timing and/or method of revenue recognition for its contracts. The Company expects to complete its assessment of the cumulative effect of adopting ASU 2014-09 as well as the expected impact of adoption during 2017. The Company will continue its evaluation of ASU 2014-09, including how it may impact new contracts it receives as well as new or emerging interpretations of the standard, through the date of adoption. No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first quarter of 2017 , have had or are expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (2) Acquisitions On January 31, 2017 , the Company acquired 100 percent of the shares of Vertex-Global Holding B.V. ("Vertex"), a provider of dental materials worldwide under the Vertex and NextDent brands. The cash portion of the purchase price is included in cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash assumed, in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The share portion of the purchase price is included in issuance of stock for acquisitions in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Equity. The operating results of Vertex have been included in the Company's reported r esults since the closing date. The purchase price of the acquisition has been allocated to the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The Company did not acquire any businesses in 2016. 8 (3)Inventories Components of inventories, net , as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: (4)Property and Equipment Property and equipment , net, as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: (a) Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of (i) their estimated useful lives and (ii) the estimated or contractual life of the related lease. For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , depreciation expense on property and equipment was $5,873 and $6,000 , respectively . (5)Intangible Assets Intangible assets , net, other than goodwill , as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $8,832 and $8,819 for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively . 9 (6)Accrued and Other Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Other liabilities as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: (7)Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments The Company conducts business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, the Company endeavors to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on its balance sheet and those of its subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. When appropriate, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, " Derivatives and Hedging ," and therefore, all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) are recognized in " I nterest and other income , net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid expenses and other current assets or in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The Company had $35,302 in notional foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2017 , for which the fair value was not material . No foreign exchange contracts were outstanding as of December 31, 2016 . The Company translates foreign currency balance sheets from each international businesses' functional currency (generally the respective local currency) to U.S. dollars at end-of-period exchange rates, and statements of earnings at average exchange rates for each period. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are a component of other comprehensive income (loss). The Company does not hedge the fluctuation in reported revenue and earnings resulting from the translation of these international operations' results into U.S. dollars. The impact of translating the Company's non-U.S. operations' revenue and earnings into U.S. dollars was not material to the Company's results of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. 10 (8) Borrowings Credit Facility As of March 31, 2017, the Company had a $150,000 revolving, unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks, to be used for general corporate purposes and working capital needs. The Credit Agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2019 .The Credit Agreement includes provisions for the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans and contains certain restrictive covenants, which include the maintenance of a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio. The Company was in compliance with t hose covenants at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 . There were no outstanding borrowings as of March 31, 2017 . Capitalized Lease Obligations The Company's capitalized leas e obligations primarily include a lease agreement that was entered into during 2006 with respect to the Company's corporate headquarters located in Rock Hill, SC. Capitalized lease obligations decreased t o $8,038 at March 31, 2017 from $8,159 at December 31, 2016 , due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. (9) Pension Benefits The components of the Company's pension cost recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: (10) Net L oss P er Share The Company computes basic loss per share using net loss attributable to 3D Systems Corporation and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted loss per share incorporates the additional shares issuable upon assumed exercise of stock options and the release of restricted stock and restricted stock units , except in such case when their inclusion would be anti-dilutive . For the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, t he effect of dilutive securities, including non-vested stock options and restricted stock awards/units, was excluded from the denominator for the calculation of diluted net loss per because the Company recognized a net loss for the period and their inclusion would be anti-dilutive . The effect of dilutive securities excluded was 5, 503 weighted average shares and 88 weighted average shares for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (11) Fair Value Measurements ASC 820, " Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ," defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs that may be used to measure fair value: 11 Level1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level2 - Observable inputs other than Level1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; or Level3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. For the Company, the above standard applies to cash equivalents and earnout consideration . The Company utilizes the market approach to measure fair value for its financial assets and liabilities. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: (a) Cash equivalents include funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments and are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet. (b) The fair value of the earnout consideration, which is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired businesses, was derived by analyzing the future performance of the acquired businesses using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and adjusting those amounts to reflect the ability of the acquired entities to achieve the stated targets. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, th e valuations are classified in L evel 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The change in earnout consideration reflects a $3,206 payment, partially offset by $268 of accretion . The Company did not have any transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy during the quarter ended March 31, 2017 . In addition to the assets and liabilities included in the above table, certain of our assets and liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This includes goodwill and other intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment assessment, in addition to redeemable noncontrolling interests . For additional discussion, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Form10-K. (12)Income Taxes For the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded provisions o f $1,041 and $1,179 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rate s of 11.7 % and 7.1 %, respectively. The Company has not provided for any taxes on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest all such earnings outside of the U.S. We believe a calculation of the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings is impracticable. 12 Tax years 2003 through 2015 remain subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, with most of the years open to examination due to the generation and utilization of net operating losses. The Company files income tax returns (which are open to examination beginning in the year shown in parentheses) in Australia ( 2012 ), Belgium ( 2013 ), Brazil ( 2011 ), China ( 2013 ), France ( 2013 ), Germany ( 201 3 ), India ( 2013 ), Israel ( 2012 ), Italy ( 2011 ), Japan ( 201 2 ), Korea ( 201 2 ), Mexico ( 2011 ), Netherlands ( 2011 ), Switzerland ( 2011 ), the United Kingdom ( 2015 ) and Uruguay ( 2011 ). (13)Segment Information The Company operates in one reportable business segment. The Company conducts its business through various offices and facilities located throughout the Asia Pacific region (Australia, China, India, Japan and Korea), Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Israel, Latin America (Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay), Russiaand the United States. The Company has historically disclosed summarized financial information for the geographic areas of operations as if they were segments in accordance with ASC 280, " Segment Reporting ." Financial information concerning the Company's geographical locations is based on the location of the selling entity. Such summarized financial information concerning the Company's geographical operations is shown in the following tables: 13 (14)Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases . For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , rent expense under operating leases was $3,682 and $3,256 , respectively. Certain of the Company's acquisitions contain earnout provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $7,868 and $10,806 , respectively. See Note 6. Put Options Owners of interests in a certain subsidiary have the right in certain circumstances to require the Company to acquire either a portion of or all of the remaining ownership interests held by them. The owners' ability to exercise any such "put option" right is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including conditions requiring notice in advance of exercise. In addition, these rights cannot be exercised prior to a specified exercise date. The exercise of these rights at their earliest contractual date would result in obligations of the Company to fund the related amounts in 2019 . 14 Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at March 31, 2017 , performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8,872 to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 .The ultimate amount payable relating to this transaction will vary because it is dependent on the future results of operations of the subject business. Litigation Securities and Derivative Litigation The Company and certain of its former executive officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative stockholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The consolidated action is styled KBC Asset Management NV v. 3D Systems Corporation, et al. , Case No. 0:15-cv-02393-MGL. The Amended Consolidated Complaint (the "Complaint"), which was filed on December 9, 2015, alleges that defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by making false and misleading statements and omissions and that the former officers are control persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The Complaint was filed on behalf of stockholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between October 29, 2013, and May 5, 2015 and seeks monetary damages on behalf of the purported class.Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint in its entirety on January 14, 2016, which was denied by Memorandum Opinion and Order dated July 25, 2016 (the "Order"). Defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the Order on August 4, 2016, which was denied by Order dated February 24, 2017. Nine related derivative complaints have been filed by purported Company stockholders against certain of the Company's former executive officers and members of its Board of Directors.The Company is named as a nominal defendant in all nine actions.The derivatives complaints are styled as follows: (1) Steyn v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225, filed on July 27, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina ("Steyn"); (2) Piguing v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 2015-CP-46-2396, filed on August 7, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina ("Piguing"); (3) Booth v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-692-RGA, filed on August 6, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware; (4) Nally v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 15-cv-03756-MGL, filed on September 18, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Nally"); (5) Gee v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC-610319, filed on February 17, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles ("Gee"); (6) Foster v. Reichental,et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-01016-MGL, filed on April 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Foster"); (7) Lu v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC629730, filed on August 5, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles ("Lu"); (8) Howes v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-2810-MGL, filed on August 11, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Howes"); and (9) Ameduri v. Reichental, et al. , Case No. 0:16-cv-02995-MGL, filed on September 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Ameduri"). Steyn and Piguing were consolidated into one action styled as In re 3D Systems Corp. Shareholder Derivative Litig. , Lead Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina. Gee and Lu were consolidated into one action styled as Gee v. Hull, et al. , Case No. BC610319 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles. Nally, Foster, Howes, and Ameduri were consolidated into one action in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina with Nally as the lead consolidated case . The derivative complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment and seek, among other things, monetary damages and certain corporate governance actions. All of the derivative complaints listed above have been stayed until the earlier of the close of discovery or the deadline for appealing a dismissal in the KBC Asset Management NV securities class action. The Company believes the claims alleged in the putative securities class action and the derivative lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the Company and its officers and directors vigorously. 15 Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, et. al. On August 23, 2013, Ronald Barranco, a former Company employee, filed two lawsuits against the Company and certain officers in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The first lawsuit ("Barranco I") is captioned Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-411 LEK RLP, and alleges seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of Print3D Corporation (of which Mr. Barranco was a 50% shareholder) and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company. The second lawsuit ("Barranco II") is captioned Ronald Barranco v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., Abraham Reichental, and Damon Gregoire , Case No. CV 13-412 LEK RLP, and alleges the same seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of certain website domains from Mr. Barranco and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company.Both Barranco I and Barranco II allege the Company breached certain purchase agreements in order to avoid paying Mr. Barranco additional monies pursuant to royalty and earn out provisions in the agreements. The Company and its officers timely filed responsive pleadings on October 22, 2013 seeking, inter alia , to dismiss Barranco I due to a mandatory arbitration agreement and for lack of personal jurisdiction and to dismiss Barranco II for lack of personal jurisdiction. With regard to Barranco I, the Hawaii district court, on February 28, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina for the convenience of the parties. However, the Hawaii court recognized that the plaintiff's claims are all subject to mandatory and binding arbitration in Charlotte, North Carolina. Because the Hawaii court was without authority to compel arbitration outside of Hawaii, the court ordered that the case be transferred to the district court encompassing Charlotte (the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina) so that court could compel arbitration in Charlotte. On April 17, 2014, Barranco I was transferred in to the Western District of North Carolina. Plaintiff filed a demand for arbitration on October 29, 2014. On December 9, 2014, the Company filed its answer to plaintiff's demand for arbitration. On February 2, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended demand that removed Mr. Gregoire as a defendant from the matter, and on February 4, 2015 the Company filed its amended answer. The parties selected an arbitrator and arbitration took place in June 2015 in Charlotte, North Carolina. On September 28, 2015, the arbitrator issued a final award in favor of Mr. Barranco with respect to two alleged breaches of contract and implied covenants arising out of the contract.The arbitrator found that the Company did not commit fraud or make any negligent misrepresentations to Mr. Barranco. Pursuant to the award, the Company is to pay approximately $11,282 , which includes alleged actual damages of $7,254 , fees and expenses of $2,318 and prejudgment interest of $1,710 . The Company disagrees with the single arbitrator's findings and conclusions and believes the arbitrator's decision exceeds his authority and disregards the applicable law. As an initial response, the Company filed a motion for modification on September 30, 2015, based on mathematical errors in the computation of damages and fees. On October 16, 2015, the arbitrator issued an order denying the Company's motion and sua sponte issuing a modified final award in favor of Mr. Barranco in the same above-referenced amounts, but making certain substantive changes to the award, which changes the Company believes were improper and outside the scope of his authority and the American Arbitration Association rules. On November 20, 2015, the Company filed a motion to vacate the arbitration award in the federal court in the Western District of North Carolina.Claimants also filed a motion to confirm the arbitration award. A hearing was held on the motions on June 29, 2016 in federal court in the Western District of North Carolina. The court requested supplemental briefing by the parties, which briefs were filed on July 11, 2016. On August 31, 2016, the court issued an Order granting in part and denying in part Plaintiff's motion to confirm the arbitration award and for judgment, entering judgment in the principal amount of the arbitration award and denying Plaintiff's motion for fees and costs.The court denied the Company's motion to vacate.On September 7, 2016, Plaintiff filed a motion to amend the judgment to include prejudgment interest.The Company opposed that motion and the parties submitted briefing, which is currently pending before the court. On September 28, 2016 the Company filed a motion to alter or amend the judgment.Plaintiff opposed the motion and the parties submitted briefing, which is currently pending before the court. Notwithstanding the Company's right to appeal, given the arbitrator's decision, the Company recorded an $11,282 expense provision for this matter in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The provision is subject to adjustment based on the ultimate outcome of the Company's appeal. If it is ultimately determined that money is owed following the full appellate process in federal court, the Company intends to fund any amounts to be paid from cash on hand.This amount has been classified as a long-term liability given the customary timeline of an appeals process. The Company will review this classification periodically. 16 With regard to Barranco II, the Hawaii district court, on March 17, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina. However, the Hawaii court dismissed Count II in plaintiff's complaint alleging breach of the employment agreement.The Company filed an answer to the complaint in the Hawaii district court on March 31, 2014.On November 19, 2014, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on all claims which was heard on January 20, 2015. On January 30, 2015, the court entered an order granting in part and denying in Part the Company's motion for summary judgment. The Order narrowed the plaintiff's claim for breach of contract and dismissed the plaintiff's claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. As a result, Messrs. Reichental and Gregoire were dismissed from the lawsuit. The case was tried to a jury in May 2016, and on May 27, 2016 the jury found that the Company was not liable for either breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Additionally, the jury found in favor of the Company on its counterclaim against Mr. Barranco and determined that Mr. Barranco violated his non-competition covenant with the Company. The Court is expected to order an accounting with respect to the counterclaim. The Company is involved in various other legal matters incidental to its business. Although the Company cannot predict the results of litigation with certainty, the Company believes that the disposition of these legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. Indemnification In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company's products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant, and the Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on its future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at the Company's request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, the Company has directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable the Company to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and the policy limits. There is no assurance that the policy limits will be sufficient to cover all damages, if any . (15) Accumula ted Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in the balances of accumula ted other comprehensive loss by component are as follows: The amounts presented above are included in other comprehensive income (loss) and are net of taxes. For additional information about foreign currency translation, see Note 7. (16)Noncontrolling Interests As of March 31, 2017 , the Company owned approximately 70% of the capital and voting rights of Robtec, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products. Robtec was acquired on November 25, 2014 . As of March 31, 2017 , the Company owned approximately 65% of the capital and voting rights of Easyway, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in China. Easyway was acquired on April 2, 2016 . Item2. M anagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item1 (the "Financial Statements") of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q ("Form 10-Q"). We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance that are discussed in greater detail in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this Item2 and that are discussed or referred to in Item1A of PartII of this Form 10-Q. 17 Business Overview 3D Systems Corporation ("3D Systems" or the "Company" or "we" or "us") is a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1993 that operates through subsidiaries in North America and South America (collectively referred to as "Americas"), Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and the Asia Pacificregion ("APAC"). We market our products and services in those areas as well as in other parts of the world. We provide comprehensive 3D printing solutions, including 3D printers, print materials, software, on-demand manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning ("VSP "), and printing of medical and dental devices and surgical guides and instruments. Our solutions support advanced applications in a wide range of industries including healthcare, aerospace, automotive and durable goods. 3D Systems has a 30 year history of experience and expertise which have proven vital to our development of an ecosystem that enables customers to optimize product designs, transform workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models. Customers can use our 3D printing solutions to design and manufacture complex and unique parts, eliminate expensive tooling, produce parts locally or in small batches and reduce lead times andtime to market. A growing number of customers are shifting from prototyping applications to also using 3D printing for production. We believe this shift will be further driven by our continued advancement and innovation of 3D printing solutions that improve durability, repeatability, productivity and total cost of operations. Recent Developments On January 31, 2017, we announced the acquisition of Vertex-Global Holding B.V. ("Vertex") , a provider of dental materials worldwide under the Vertex and NextDent brands. Vertex Dental and NextDent are manufacturers of photopolymer, thermoplastic, polymer and monomer materials for traditional and 3D printing dental applications. NextDent has developed 12 dental 3D printing materials to date and has obtained regulatory approval for use of these materials in more than 70 countries worldwide. NextDent's portfolio of 3D printing materials allow dental professionals to produce trays, models, drilling templates, dentures, orthodontic splints, crowns and bridges with enhanced speed, precision and efficiency and lower cost compared to conventional procedures. We believe together, our Figure 4 platform and NextDent's advanced 3D printing materials provide a strategic foothold in the multi-billion-dollar digital dentistry opportunity and will deliver materials innovation, regulatory compliance, manufacturing efficiency and vertical solutions expertise to advance our solutions across healthcare and other verticals. Summary of 2017 Financial R esults Total consolidated r evenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 increased by 2.6 %, or $3.9 million, to $156.4 million, compared to $152.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 . These results reflect an increase in materials and services revenue, partially offset by a decrease in products revenue, as further discussed below . Healthcare revenue includes sales of products, materials and services for healthcare-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, 3D printing of surgical guides and instruments and medical and dental devices. For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, healthcare revenue increased by 29.0 %, to $43.2 million, and made up 27.6 % of total revenue , compared to $33.5 million , or 21.9% of total revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. The increase in healthcare revenue reflects increased products and serv ices sales that were driven by customers increasing their investments and expanding their capabilities in precision healthcare , coupled with the acquisition of Vertex . For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, total software revenue from products and services increased by 0.5 %, to $20.4 million, and made up 13.0 % of total revenue, compared to$20.3 million, or 13.3% of total revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , our backlog was $34.6 million and $31.7 million, respectively . Production and delivery of our printers is generally not characterized by long lead times; backlog is more dependent on timing of customers' requested deliveries. In addition, on-demand parts services lead time and backlog depends on whether orders are for rapid prototyping or longer-range production runs . As of March 31, 2017 , backlog included $8.7 million of on-demand parts manufacturing service orders, compared to $9.2 million at December 31, 2016 . Gros s profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 increased by 3.4 %, or $2.7 million, to $80.2 million, compared to $77.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 . Gross profit margin for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 51.3% and 50.8%, respectively . Our shift away from lower margin consumer products combined with cost reduction efforts drove higher gross profit and margin. O perating expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 decreased by 5.3 %, or $5.0 million, to $89.3 million, compared to $94.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 . These results primarily reflect lower selling, gen eral and administrative expense, partially offset by higher research and development expense, as further discussed below . 18 Our operating loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 was $9.1 million , compared to an operating loss of $16.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 , reflecting higher gross profit and lower operating expenses, as further discussed below . For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, we generated $19.4 mil lion and $18.1 million of cash in operations , respectively, as further discussed below . In total, our unrestricted cash balance at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $161.7 million and $184.9 million , respectively . Results of Operations Quarter Comparison First quarter comparison of revenue by class We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services.The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers, as well as software, 3D scanners and haptic devices. The materials category includes a wide range of print materials to be used with our 3D printers, the majority of which are proprietary.The services category includes warranty and maintenance on 3D printers and simulators, software maintenance, on-demand solutions and healthcare services. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced printersin any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition to changes in sales volumes, including the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: (1) the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and (2) the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically related to changes in unit volume. Table 1 sets forth the change in revenue by class for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 1 Total consolidated revenue increased by 2.6 %, primarily driven by higher healthcare revenue c oupled with the acquisition of V ertex. For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , software revenue included in the products category, including scanners and haptic devices , contributed $9.8 million . The increase in materials revenue primarily reflects increased demand for materials driven by industrial customers with production printers, coupled with the acquisition of Vertex . The increase in services revenue reflects increased demand for healthcare services and our expanded software offering, which were partially offset by a decrease in on-demand parts manufacturing services . For the quarter ended March 31, 2017 , services revenue from on-demand parts manufacturing services decreased 6.2 % to $25.1 million, compared to $26.8 for quarter ended March 31, 2016 . For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , software services contributed $10.6 million and $10.5 million , respectively. 19 First quarter comparison of revenue by geographic region Table 2 sets forth the change in revenue by geographic region for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 2 The decrease in revenue in the Americas region primarily reflects lower sales of 3D printers and on-demand parts manufacturing services, partially offset by increased healthcare-related solutions . The increase in revenue in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions primarily reflects increased sales of materials, coupled with the acquisition of Vertex. For the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, revenue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and APAC, was 50.2 % and 49.8% of total revenue, respectively . Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 3 sets forth gross profit and gross profit margins for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 3 The increase in total consolidated gross profit is primarily driven by higher products and materials gross profit, as further discussed below . Gross profit margin for products increased, primarily due to cost reduction measures and a favorable impact to sales mix from our shift away from lower margin consumer products . Gross profit margin for materials decreased , primarily due to an unfavorable impact of mix . Gross profit margin for services decreased , primarily driven by lower field service margins, partially offset by increased on-demand parts manufacturing services margins . On-demand parts manufacturing services gross profit margin increased to 4 2.5 % for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 41.8 % for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 . 20 Operating expenses Table 4 sets forth the components of operating expenses for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 4 Total operating expenses decreased, reflecting lower selling, general and administrative expenses , partially offset by higher research and development expenses, as discussed below. Selling, general and administrative expenses d ecreasedprimarily due to a $5.5 million dec rease in compensation costs driven by lower stock based compensation expense and $2.2 million decrease in bad debt expense . Research and development expenses increased primarily due to a $1.4 million increase in compensation costs related to increased staffing, a $0 .6 million increase in outside services associated with product development and a $0 .4 million increase in materials purch ases . Loss from operations Table 5 sets forth operating income ( loss ) by geographic region for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 5 The improvement in operating loss was primarily driven by lower operating expenses. See " Gross profit and gross profit margins " and " Operating expenses " above. With respect to the Americas, for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the changes in operating loss reflected the same factors relating to our consolidated operating loss that are discussed above . The changes in operating loss in our operations outside the Americas for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 resulted primarily from transfer pricing, changes in sales volume and foreign currency translation . 21 Interest and other income , net Table 6 sets forth the components of interest and other income , net, for the quarters ended March 31 , 2017 and 2016 : Table 6 Provision for income taxes For the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , we recorded a $1.0 million and $1.2 million provision for income taxes , respectively . Net loss Table 7 sets forth the primary components of net loss attributable to 3D Systems for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 7 22 Liquidity and Capital Resources Table 8 We believeour existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations in the foreseeable future, or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies.However, it is possible that, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, by borrowing from financial institutions, drawing down on our credit facility, selling assets or restructuring debt. There is no assurance, however, that funds will be available from these sources in the amounts or on terms acceptable to us . If we need to raise additional funds in the future to fund our activities, or for other reasons, and raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be diluted.In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock . Cash held outside the U.S. at March 31, 2017 was$87.0 million, or 53.8 % of total cash an d equivalents, compared to $83.5 million , o r 45.2 % of total cash and equivalents at December 31, 2016 . Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation . Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below. Days' sales outstanding was 72 days at March 31, 2017 compared to 70 days at December 31, 2016 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due decreased to 9.8 % of gross receivables, from 12.5% at December 31, 2016. We review specific receivables periodically to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable . 23 The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory . The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments . Cash flow Table 9 sum marizes the cash provided by ( used in ) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, as well as the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash, for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 9 Cash flow from operating activities Table 10 summarizes the co mponents of cash provided by operating activities for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 10 For further discu ssion of net loss , see " Net loss " above . Non-cash charges primarily consis t of depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation . For further discussion of changes in working capital, see" Liquidity and Capital Resour ces" above. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments . Cash flow from investing activities Table 11 summarizes the components of cash used in investing activities for the quarter s ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 11 24 See Note 2 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion of acquisition activity. Capital expenditures primarily consisted of expenditures for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructu re, equipment to support our on-demand parts manufacturing service and printers associated with new product development efforts. Cash flow from financing activities Table 12 summarizes th e components of cash used in financing activities for the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 : Table 1 2 Contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements Credit facilities In October 2014, we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility. The agreement provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million.Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, we may , at our option , request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility by an additional $75.0 million. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility.Based on current financial covenant limitations at March 31, 2017 , availability on the c redit f acility would be approximately $150.0 million. Future results may impact availability. See Note 8 to the condensed consolidated financial statements . Capitalized lease obligations Our capitalized lease obligations include a lease agre ement that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 840, "Leases," we are considered an owner of the properties, therefore, we have recorded the se amounts in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet. Our outstanding capitalized l ease obligations carrying value at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $8.0 million and $8.2 million, respectively. O ther contractual arrangements We lease certain of our facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases . For the quarters ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , rent expense under operating leases was $3.7 million and $3.3 million, respectively. Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout payment provisions under which the sellers of theacquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities recorded for these earnouts is $7.9 million and $10.8 million at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , respectively. The minority interest shareholders of a certain subsidiary have the right to require us to acquire either a portion of or all ownership interest under certain circumstances pursuant to a contractual arrangement, and we have a similar call option under the same contractual terms. The amount of consideration under the put and call rights is not a fixed amount, but rather is dependent upon various valuation formulas and on future events, such as revenue and gross margin performance of the subsidiary through the date of exercise, as described in Note 14 to the condensed consolidated financial statements . Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by us at March 31, 2017 performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require us in a future period to pay a maximum of approximately $8.9 million to the owners of such put rights. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 . 25 Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and do not utilize any "structured debt," "special purpose," or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Financial instruments We conduct business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, we endeavor to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on our balance sheet and those of our subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. We also, when we consider it to be appropriate, enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. See Note 7 to the condensed consolidated financial statements . We do not hedge for trading or speculative purposes, and our foreign currency contracts are generally short-term in nature, typically maturing in 90 days or less. We have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging," and therefore, we recognize all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) in interest and other expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in interest and other expense, net, in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid and other current assets or in accrued liabilities in our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our critical accounting policies are disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. The only change to our critical accounting policies during the quarter ended March31, 2017 was a modification to the way in which we account for forfeitures of share-based awards. Specifically, beginning in the first quarter of 2017, we recognize forfeitures of share-based awards as they occur in the period of forfeiture rather than estimating the number of awards expected to be forfeited at the grant date and subsequently adjusting the estimate when awards are actually forfeited. This change did not have a material impact on our results of operations in the current period, and is not expected to have a material impact on results of operations in subsequent periods Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 ("Form 10-K"). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements . In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "anticipates," or "plans" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon management's beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performanc e or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. These factors include without limitation: competitive industry pressures; our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs; our ability to identify strategic acquisitions, to integrate such acquisitions into our business without disruption and to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions ; 26 impact of future write-off or write-downs of intangible assets; our ability to acquire and enforce intellectual property rights and defend such rights against third party claims; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure; failure of our information technology infrastructure or inability to protect against cyber-attack; our ability to generate net cash flow from operations; our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; impact of global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets on our business; fluctuations in our gross profit margins, operating income or loss and/or net income or loss; our ability to efficiently conduct business outside the U.S.; our dependence on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials; our ability to manage the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries; product quality problems that result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims; our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs; our exposure to product liability claims and other claims and legal proceedings; disruption in our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions; compliance with U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations; changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations; and compliance with, and related expenses and challenges concerning, conflict-free minerals regulations; and the other factors discussed in the reports we file with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, including the risks and important factors set forth in additional detail in "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Certain of these and other factors are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf, whether as a result of new information, future developments, subsequent events or circumstances or otherwise. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above. Item3 .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk. For a discussion of market risks at December 31, 2016 , refer to Item7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," in our Form10-K. During the first quarter of 2017 , there were no material changes or developments that would materially alter the market risk assessment performed as of December 31, 2016 . Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures As of March 31, 2017 , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) pursuant to Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act. These controls and procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this evaluation, including an evaluation of the rules referred to above in this Item 4, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of March 31, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting There were no material changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this Form 10-Q that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting . 27 PARTII- OTHER INFORMATION Item1 .Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in "Litigation" in Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies to the Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. Item1A .Risk Factors. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form10-K. Item 2 . Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds . Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities On January 31, 2017, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of certain assets of Vertex-Global Holding B.V. ("Vertex"), we issued 191,533 unregistered shares of 3D Systems Corporation common stock to Vertex, in reliance on the private offering exemptions contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The fair value of the consideration paid for this acquisition, net of cash acq uire d, was $37,499,328 , of which $34,291,128 was paid in cash and $3,208,200 was paid in unregistered shares of the Company's common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any of our e quity securities during the quarter ended March 31, 2017 , except for unvested restricted stock awards repurchased or forfeited pursuant to our 2004 and 2015 Incentive Stock Plans. (a) Reflects shares of common stock surrendered to the Company for payment of tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock. (b) The average price paid reflects the average market value of shares withheld for tax purposes. Item6 .Exhibits. 28 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 29 SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 3D Systems Corporation By /s/ John N. McMullen John N. McMullen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal f inancial and accounting o fficer) (duly authorized o fficer) Date: May 3, 2017 30Item1.Financial Statements. 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 3 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT S OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed c onsolidated financial statements. 4 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ( Unaudited ) (a) Inventory is transferred from inventory to property and equipment at cost when the Company requires additional machines for training or demonstration or for placement into on-demand manufacturing services locations . (b) In general, an asset is transferred from property and equipment, net , into inventory at its net book value when the Company has identified a potential sale for a used machine. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements . 5 3D SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 3 D SYSTEMS CORPORATION NOTESTO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (1)Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 3D Systems Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") applicable to interim reports. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 ("Form10-K") . In the opinion of management, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of adjustments of a normal recurring nature, necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual results may differ from those estimates and assumptions. Certain prior period amounts presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. All amounts presented in the accompanying footnotes are presented in thousands, except for per share information. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In the first quarter of 2017, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-09, " Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting ". The following summarizes the effects of the adoption on the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements: Forfeitures - Prior to adoption, share-based compensation expense was recognized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, such that expense was recognized only for share-based awards that were expected to vest. A forfeiture rate was estimated annually and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differed from initial estimates. Upon adoption, the Company no longer applies a forfeiture rate and instead account s for forfeitures as they occur. The change was applied on a modified retrospective basis resulting in a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings of $10,206 as of January 1, 2017. Prior periods were not adjusted. Statement of Cash Flows - The Company historically accounted for excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation on the Statement of Cash Flows as a financing activity. Upon adoption of this standard, excess tax benefits are classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity. The Company has elected to adopt this portion of the standard on a prospective basis beginning in 2017. Prior periods were not adjusted. Income taxes - Upon adoption of this standard, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to share-based compensation are recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. The tax effects of exercised or vested awards are treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur. Prior periods were not adjusted. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, " Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718):Scope of Modification Accounting " ("ASU 2017-09"), in an effort to reduce diversity and clarify what constitutes a modification, as it relates to the change in terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. According 2017-09, the Company should account for the effects of a modification unless all of the following are met: (1) the fair value of the modified award is the same as the fair value the original award immediately before the original award is modified, (2) the vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified, and (3) the classification of the modified award as an equity instrument or a liability instrument is the same as the classification of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. The amendments in 2017-09 are effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-09 beginning January 1, 2018. 7 In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, " Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715):Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost " ("ASU 2017-07"), which standardizes the presentation of net benefit cost in the income statement and on the components eligible for capitalization in assets. ASU 2017-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those annual periods. The amendments in ASU 2017-07 should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets. The Company will adopt ASU 2017-07 in the first quarter of 2018 and does not expect the implementation of this guidance to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, " Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350):Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment " ("ASU 2017-04"), which eliminates the performance of Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. In performing its annual or interim impairment testing, an entity will instead compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize any impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating when it will adopt ASU 2017-04 and its impact on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, " Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory " ("ASU 2016-16"). ASU 2016-16 permits the recognition of income tax consequences related to an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those annual periods.Early adoption is permitted for any interim or annual period. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of ASU 2016-16 on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, " Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments " ("ASU 2016-15"). With the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice, ASU 2016-15 addresses the manner in which certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The amendments should be applied retrospectively with earlier application permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company expects that the implementation of this guidance will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, " Leases (Topic 842) " ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities arising from operating leases on the balance sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Though still evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-02, the Company expects changes to its balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities related to its real estate leases, but it does not anticipate material impacts to its results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers " ("ASU 2014-09"). The ASU is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which deferred the effective date of the ASU to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Companies may use either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to adopt this ASU. The Company is in process of performing an initial assessment of the impact that the new standard will have on its financial statements. As part of the initial assessment, the Company is comparing current accounting policies to expected accounting policies under the new standard. The Company is also reviewing a sample of its contracts across various businesses and geographies to identify potential differences that could result from applying the requirements of the new standard. Further the Company is evaluating the impact of the new disclosure requirements, which are expected to be significant. In addition, the Company is in the process of evaluating potential changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard, including the possible implementation of a revenue management system. The Company intends to use the modified retrospective method of adoption effective January 1, 2018, the cumulative effect of which would be recognized at the date of initial application with an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. Under the modified retrospective approach prior year periods are not restated, however, it effectively requires a company to apply both the new revenue standard and the previous revenue guidance in the year of adoption. During the year of adoption both quantitative and qualitative disclosures are required as to the impact of the new standard compared to the previous revenue guidance. 8 Although efforts are ongoing, the Company believes certain software revenues deferred under previous guidance may be recognized earlier under the new guidance since revenue is allocated to performance obligations based on either observable inputs or estimated stand-alone selling price.The Company is still in the process of evaluating the impact of potential differences. No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during 2017, have had or are expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (2) Acquisitions On January 31, 2017 , the Company acquired 100 percent of the shares of Vertex-Global Holding B.V. ("Vertex"), a provider of dental materials worldwide under the Vertex and NextDent brands. The cash portion of the purchase price is included in cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash assumed, in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The share portion of the purchase price is included in issuance of stock for acquisitions in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Equity. The operating results of Vertex have been included in the Company's reported results since the closing date. The purchase price of the acquisition has been allocated to the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The Company had no acquisition activity in the second quarter of 2017 or in fiscal year 2016. (3)Inventories Components of inventories as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: (4)Property and Equipment Property and equipment, net, as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: (a) Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of (i) their estimated useful lives and (ii) the estimated or contractual life of the related lease. Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $6,398 and $12,271 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively , compared to $6,210 and $12,210 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. 9 (5)Intangible Assets Intangible assets, net, other than goodwill , as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $8 , 984 and $17,816 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively, compared to $8, 860 and $17, 679 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively . (6)Accrued and Other Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: Other liabilities as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: 10 (7)Hedging Activities and Financial Instruments The Company conducts business in various countries using both the functional currencies of those countries and other currencies to effect cross border transactions. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the dates that those transactions are entered into and their respective settlement dates will result in a foreign exchange gain or loss. When practicable, the Company endeavors to match assets and liabilities in the same currency on its balance sheet and those of its subsidiaries in order to reduce these risks. When appropriate, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposures arising from those transactions. The Company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, " Derivatives and Hedging ," and therefore, all gains and losses (realized or unrealized) are recognized in " I nterest and other income , net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Depending on their fair value at the end of the reporting period, derivatives are recorded either in prepaid expenses and other current assets or in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The Company had $37,703 in notional foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2017, for which the fair value was not material. No foreign exchange contracts were outstanding as of December 31, 2016 . The Company translates foreign currency balance sheets from each international businesses' functional currency (generally the respective local currency) to U.S. dollars at end-of-period exchange rates, and statements of earnings at average exchange rates for each period. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are a component of other comprehensive income (loss). The Company does not hedge the fluctuation in reported revenue and earnings resulting from the translation of these international operations' results into U.S. dollars. The impact of translating the Company's non-U.S. operations' revenue and earnings into U.S. dollars was not material to the Company's results of operations for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. (8) Borrowings Credit Facility As of June 30, 2017, the Company had a $150,000 revolving, unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of banks, to be used for general corporate purposes and working capital needs. The Credit Agreement is scheduled to expire in October 2019 .The Credit Agreement includes provisions for the issuance of letters of credit and swingline loans and contains certain restrictive covenants, which include the maintenance of a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio. The Company was in compliance with those covenants at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. There were no outstanding borrowings as of June 30, 2017. Capitalized Lease Obligations The Company's capitalized lease obligations primarily include a lease agreement that was entered into during 2006 with respect to the Company's corporate headquarters located in Rock Hill, SC. The change in capitalized lease obligations , as presented in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, was due to the normal scheduled timing of payments. (9) Pension Benefits The components of the Company's pension cost recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: (10) Net Loss P er Share The Company computes basic loss per share using net loss attributable to 3D Systems Corporation and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. Diluted loss per share incorporates the additional shares issuable upon assumed exercise of stock options and the release of restricted stock and restricted stock units , except in such case when their inclusion would be anti-dilutive . 11 For the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the effect of dilutive securities, including non-vested stock options and restricted stock awards/units, was excluded from the denominator for the calculation of diluted net loss per share because the Company recognized a net loss for the period and their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. The effect of dilutive securities excluded was 5,439 weighted average shares and 5,471 weighted average shares for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to 1,382 weighted average shares and 1,263 weighted average shares for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. (11) Fair Value Measurements ASC 820, " Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ," defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. ASC 820 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level2 - Observable inputs other than Level1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; or Level3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. For the Company, the above standard applies to cash equivalents and earnout consideration. The Company utilizes the market approach to measure fair value for its financial assets and liabilities. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below: (a) Cash equivalents include funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments and are included in cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet. 12 (b) The fair value of the earnout consideration, which is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired businesses, was derived by analyzing the future performance of the acquired businesses using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and adjusting those amounts to reflect the ability of the acquired entities to achieve the stated targets. Given the significance of the unobservable inputs, the valuations are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The change in earnout consideration reflects a $3,206 payment, partially offset by $48 8 of accretion. The Company did not have any transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy during the quarter or six months ended June 30, 2017 . In addition to the assets and liabilities included in the above table, certain of our assets and liabilities are to be initially measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This includes goodwill and other intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment assessment, in addition to redeemable noncontrolling interests. For additional discussion, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Form10-K. (12)Income Taxes For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company recorded provisions of $2,067 and $3,108 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 34.9 % and 21.0 %, respectively. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company recorded provisions of $1,700 and $2,879 , respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 48.4% and 14.3% , respectively. The Company has not provided for any taxes on the unremitted earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest all such earnings outside of the U.S. We believe a calculation of the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings is impracticable. Tax years 2003 through 2015 remain subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, with most of the years open to examination due to the generation and utilization of net operating losses. The Company files income tax returns (which are open to examination beginning in the year shown in parentheses) in Australia ( 2012 ), Belgium ( 2013 ), Brazil ( 2011 ), China ( 2014 ), France ( 2014 ), Germany ( 2013 ), India ( 2013 ), Israel ( 2012 ), Italy ( 2011 ), Japan ( 2012 ), Korea ( 2012 ), Mexico ( 2011 ), Netherlands ( 2011 ), Switzerland ( 2011 ), the United Kingdom ( 2015 ) and Uruguay ( 2011 ). (13)Segment Information The Company operates in one reportable business segment. The Company conducts its business through various offices and facilities located throughout the Asia Pacific region (Australia, China, India, Japan and Korea), E MEA (Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Latin America (Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay)and the United States. The Company has historically disclosed summarized financial information for the geographic areas of operations as if they were segments in accordance with ASC 280, " Segment Reporting ." Financial information concerning the Company's geographical locations is based on the location of the selling entity. Such summarized financial information concerning the Company's geographical operations is shown in the following tables: 13 (14)Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, rent expense under operating leases was $3, 698 and $7,452, respectively, compared to $2,919 and $6,175 for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. Certain of the Company's acquisition agreements contain earnout provisions under which the sellers of the acquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total liability recorded for these earnouts at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $8,088 and $10,806, respectively. See Note 6. 14 Put Options Owners of interests in a certain subsidiary have the right in certain circumstances to require the Company to acquire either a portion of or all of the remaining ownership interests held by them. The owners' ability to exercise any such "put option" right is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including conditions requiring notice in advance of exercise. In addition, these rights cannot be exercised prior to a specified exercise date. The exercise of these rights at their earliest contractual date would result in obligations of the Company to fund the related amounts in 2019. Management estimates, assuming that the subsidiary owned by the Company at June 30, 2017, performs over the relevant future periods at its forecasted earnings levels, that these rights, if exercised, could require the Company, in future periods, to pay approximately $8,872 to the owners of such rights to acquire such ownership interests in the relevant subsidiary. This amount has been recorded as redeemable noncontrolling interests on the balance sheet at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016.The ultimate amount payable relating to this transaction will vary because it is dependent on the future results of operations of the subject business. Litigation Securities and Derivative Litigation The Company and certain of its former executive officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative stockholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. The consolidated action is styled KBC Asset Management NV v. 3D Systems Corporation, et al., Case No. 0:15-cv-02393-MGL. The Amended Consolidated Complaint (the "Complaint"), which was filed on December 9, 2015, alleges that defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by making false and misleading statements and omissions and that the former officers are control persons under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The Complaint was filed on behalf of stockholders who purchased shares of the Company's common stock between October 29, 2013, and May 5, 2015 and seeks monetary damages on behalf of the purported class. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint in its entirety on January 14, 2016, which was denied by Memorandum Opinion and Order dated July 25, 2016 (the "Order"). Defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the Order on August 4, 2016, which was denied by Order dated February 24, 2017. Nine related derivative complaints have been filed by purported Company stockholders against certain of the Company's former executive officers and members of its Board of Directors.The Company is named as a nominal defendant in all nine actions. The derivatives complaints are styled as follows: (1) Steyn v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225, filed on July 27, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina ("Steyn"); (2) Piguing v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 2015-CP-46-2396, filed on August 7, 2015 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina ("Piguing"); (3) Booth v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 15-692-RGA, filed on August 6, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware; (4) Nally v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 15-cv-03756-MGL, filed on September 18, 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Nally"); (5) Gee v. Hull, et al., Case No. BC-610319, filed on February 17, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles ("Gee"); (6) Foster v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 0:16-cv-01016-MGL, filed on April 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Foster"); (7) Lu v. Hull, et al., Case No. BC629730, filed on August 5, 2016 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles ("Lu"); (8) Howes v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 0:16-cv-2810-MGL, filed on August 11, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Howes"); and (9) Ameduri v. Reichental, et al., Case No. 0:16-cv-02995-MGL, filed on September 1, 2016 in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ("Ameduri"). Steyn and Piguing were consolidated into one action styled as In re 3D Systems Corp. Shareholder Derivative Litig., Lead Case No. 2015-CP-46-2225 in the Court of Common Pleas for the 16th Judicial Circuit, County of York, South Carolina. Gee and Lu were consolidated into one action styled as Gee v. Hull, et al., Case No. BC610319 in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles.Nally, Foster, Howes, and Ameduri were consolidated into one action in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina with Nally as the lead consolidated case. The derivative complaints allege claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment and seek, among other things, monetary damages and certain corporate governance actions. All of the derivative complaints listed above have been stayed until the earlier of the close of discovery or the deadline for appealing a dismissal in the KBC Asset Management NV securities class action. The Company believes the claims alleged in the putative securities class action and the derivative lawsuits are without merit and intends to defend the Company and its officers and directors vigorously. 15 Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, et. al. On August 23, 2013, Ronald Barranco, a former Company employee, filed two lawsuits against the Company and certain officers in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The first lawsuit ("Barranco I") is captioned Ronald Barranco and Print3D Corporation v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., and Damon Gregoire, Case No. CV 13-411 LEK RLP, and alleges seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of Print3D Corporation (of which Mr. Barranco was a 50% shareholder) and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company. The second lawsuit ("Barranco II") is captioned Ronald Barranco v. 3D Systems Corporation, 3D Systems, Inc., Abraham Reichental, and Damon Gregoire, Case No. CV 13-412 LEK RLP, and alleges the same seven causes of action relating to the Company's acquisition of certain website domains from Mr. Barranco and the subsequent employment of Mr. Barranco by the Company.Both Barranco I and Barranco II allege the Company breached certain purchase agreements in order to avoid paying Mr. Barranco additional monies pursuant to royalty and earn out provisions in the agreements. The Company and its officers timely filed responsive pleadings on October 22, 2013 seeking, inter alia, to dismiss Barranco I due to a mandatory arbitration agreement and for lack of personal jurisdiction and to dismiss Barranco II for lack of personal jurisdiction. With regard to Barranco I, the Hawaii district court, on February 28, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina for the convenience of the parties. However, the Hawaii court recognized that the plaintiff's claims are all subject to mandatory and binding arbitration in Charlotte, North Carolina. Because the Hawaii court was without authority to compel arbitration outside of Hawaii, the court ordered that the case be transferred to the district court encompassing Charlotte (the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina) so that court could compel arbitration in Charlotte. On April 17, 2014, Barranco I was transferred in to the Western District of North Carolina. Plaintiff filed a demand for arbitration on October 29, 2014. On December 9, 2014, the Company filed its answer to plaintiff's demand for arbitration. On February 2, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended demand that removed Mr. Gregoire as a defendant from the matter, and on February 4, 2015 the Company filed its amended answer. The parties selected an arbitrator and arbitration took place in June 2015 in Charlotte, North Carolina. On September 28, 2015, the arbitrator issued a final award in favor of Mr. Barranco with respect to two alleged breaches of contract and implied covenants arising out of the contract.The arbitrator found that the Company did not commit fraud or make any negligent misrepresentations to Mr. Barranco. Pursuant to the award, the Company is to pay approximately $11,282, which includes alleged actual damages of $7,254, fees and expenses of $2,318 and prejudgment interest of $1,710. The Company disagrees with the single arbitrator's findings and conclusions and believes the arbitrator's decision exceeds his authority and disregards the applicable law. As an initial response, the Company filed a motion for modification on September 30, 2015, based on mathematical errors in the computation of damages and fees. On October 16, 2015, the arbitrator issued an order denying the Company's motion and sua sponte issuing a modified final award in favor of Mr. Barranco in the same above-referenced amounts, but making certain substantive changes to the award, which changes the Company believes were improper and outside the scope of his authority and the American Arbitration Association rules. On November 20, 2015, the Company filed a motion to vacate the arbitration award in the federal court in the Western District of North Carolina.Claimants also filed a motion to confirm the arbitration award. A hearing was held on the motions on June 29, 2016 in federal court in the Western District of North Carolina. The court requested supplemental briefing by the parties, which briefs were filed on July 11, 2016. On August 31, 2016, the court issued an order granting in part and denying in part Plaintiff's motion to confirm the arbitration award and for judgment, entering judgment in the principal amount of the arbitration award and denying Plaintiff's motion for fees and costs.The court denied the Company's motion to vacate.On September 7, 2016, Plaintiff filed a motion to amend the judgment to include prejudgment interest.The Company opposed that motion and the parties submitted briefing, which is currently pending before the court. On September 28, 2016 the Company filed a motion to alter or amend the judgment.Plaintiff opposed the motion and the parties submitted briefing.On May 18, 2017, the court issued an opinion and order denying the Company's motion to alter or amend and denying Plaintiff's motion for prejudgment interest.On June 16, 2017, the Company filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.The appeal is pending. Notwithstanding the Company's right to appeal, given the arbitrator's decision, the Company recorded an $11,282 expense provision for this matter in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The provision is subject to adjustment based on the ultimate outcome of the Company's appeal. If it is ultimately determined that money is owed following the full appellate process in federal court, the Company intends to fund any amounts to be paid from cash on hand. This amount has been classified as a long-term liability given the customary timeline of an appeals process. The Company will review this classification periodically. With regard to Barranco II, the Hawaii district court, on March 17, 2014, denied the Company's motion to dismiss and its motion to transfer venue to South Carolina. However, the Hawaii court dismissed Count II in plaintiff's complaint alleging breach of the employment agreement.The Company filed an answer to the complaint in the Hawaii district court on March 31, 2014.On November 19, 2014, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on all claims which was heard on January 20, 2015. On January 30, 2015, the court entered an order granting in part and denying in Part the Company's motion for summary judgment. The Order narrowed the plaintiff's claim for breach of contract and dismissed the plaintiff's claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. As a result, Messrs. 16 Reichental and Gregoire were dismissed from the lawsuit. The case was tried to a jury in May 2016, and on May 27, 2016 the jury found that the Company was not liable for either breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Additionally, the jury found in favor of the Company on its counterclaim against Mr. Barranco and determined that Mr. Barranco violated his non-competition covenant with the Company. On July 5, 2017, the court ordered a bench trial regarding causation and damages with respect to the equitable accounting on the Company's prevailing counterclaim against Mr. Barranco and is expected to set a trial date. The Company is involved in various other legal matters incidental to its business. Although the Company cannot predict the results of litigation with certainty, the Company believes that the disposition of all current legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated financial position. Indemnification In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements to indemnify customers or suppliers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company's products. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant, and the Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on its future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is, or was, serving at the Company's request in such capacity, subject to limited exceptions. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations is unlimited; however, the Company has directors and officers insurance coverage that may enable the Company to recover future amounts paid, subject to a deductible and the policy limits. There is no assurance that the policy limits will be sufficient to cover all damages, if any. (15) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in the balances of accumula ted other comprehensive loss by component are as follows: For additional information about foreign currency translation, see Note 7. (16)Noncontrolling Interests As of June 30, 2017, the Company owned approximately 70% of the capital and voting rights of Robtec, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in Brazil . Robtec was acquired on November 25, 2014. As of June 30, 2017, the Company owned approximately 65% of the capital and voting rights of Easyway, a service bureau and distributor of 3D printing and scanning products in China. Easyway was acquired on April 2, 201 5 . An additional 5% of the capital and voting rights were acquired on July 1 9, 2017 for $2.3 million. Item2. M anagement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item1 (the "Financial Statements") of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q ("Form 10-Q"). We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our future performance that are discussed in greater detail in the sections entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this Item2 and that are discussed or referred to in Item1A of PartII of this Form 10-Q. 17 Business Overview 3D Systems Corporation ("3D Systems" or the "Company" or "we" or "us") is a holding company incorporated in Delaware in 1993 that markets our products and services through subsidiaries in North America and South America (collectively referred to as "Americas"), Europe and the Middle East (collectively referred to as "EMEA") and the Asia Pacificregion ("APAC"). We provide comprehensive 3D printing solutions, including 3D printers, print materials, software, on-demand manufacturing services and digital design tools. Our solutions support advanced applications in a wide range of industries and key verticals including healthcare, aerospace, automotive and durable goods. Our precision healthcare capabilities include simulation, Virtual Surgical Planning ("VSP "), and printing of medical and dental devices and surgical guides and instruments. 3D Systems has a 30 year history of experience and expertise which have proven vital to our development of an ecosystem that enables customers to optimize product designs, transform workflows, bring innovative products to market and drive new business models. Customers can use our 3D solutions to design and manufacture complex and unique parts, eliminate expensive tooling, produce parts locally or in small batches and reduce lead times andtime to market. A growing number of customers are shifting from prototyping applications to also using 3D printing for production. We believe this shift will be further driven by our continued advancement and innovation of 3D printing solutions that improve durability, repeatability, productivity and total cost of operations. Summary of Second Quarter 2017 Financial R esults Total consolidated revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 increased by 0.8%, or $1.4 million, to $159.5 million, compared to $158.1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. These results reflect an increase in materials and services revenue, partially offset by a decrease in products revenue, as further discussed below. Healthcare revenue includes sales of products, materials and services for healthcare-related applications, including simulation, training and planning, 3D printing of surgical guides and instruments and medical and dental devices. For the quarter ended June 30, 2017, healthcare revenue increased by 25.0%, to $48.5 million, and made up 30.4% of total revenue, compared to $38.8 million, or 24.5% of total revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The increase in healthcare revenue reflects increased products and services sales coupled with the acquisition of Vertex. For the quarter ended June 30, 2017, total software revenue from products and services increased by 9.1%, to $24.0 million, and made up 15.0% of total revenue, compared to $22.0 million, or 13.9% of total revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, our backlog was $32.4 million and $31.7 million, respectively. Production and delivery of our printers is generally not characterized by long lead times; backlog is more dependent on timing of customers' requested deliveries. In addition, on-demand manufacturing services lead time and backlog depends on whether orders are for rapid prototyping or longer-range production runs. As of June 30, 2017, backlog included $9.6 million of on-demand manufacturing service orders, compared to $9.2 million at December 31, 2016. Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 increased by 0.3%, or $0.3 million, to $80.7 million, compared to $80.4 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. Gross profit margin for the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was 50.6% and 50.9%, respectively. Operating expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 increased by 4.1%, or $3.4 million, to $87.5 million, compared to $84.1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, primarily from a 17% increase in R&D investments. Our operating loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 was $6.9 million, compared to an operating loss of $3.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, we generated $18.4 million and $31.0 million of cash from operations, respectively, as further discussed below. In total, our unrestricted cash balance at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $154.0 million and $184.9 million, respectively. 18 Results of Operations C omparison of revenue by class We earn revenues from the sale of products, materials and services. The products category includes 3D printers, healthcare simulators and digitizers, as well as software, 3D scanners and haptic devices. The materials category includes a wide range of print materials to be used with our 3D printers, the majority of which are proprietary, as well as acquired conventional dental materials . The services category includes warranty and maintenance on 3D printers and simul ators, software maintenance, on- demand manufacturing solutions and healthcare services. Due to the relatively high price of certain 3D printers and a corresponding lengthy selling cycle and relatively low unit volume of the higher priced printersin any particular period, a shift in the timing and concentration of orders and shipments from one period to another can affect reported revenue in any given period. Revenue reported in any particular period is also affected by timing of revenue recognition under rules prescribed by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition to changes in sales volumes and the impact of revenue from acquisitions, there are two other primary drivers of changes in revenue from one period to another: (1) the combined effect of changes in product mix and average selling prices, sometimes referred to as price and mix effects, and (2) the impact of fluctuations in foreign currencies. As used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, the price and mix effects relate to changes in revenue that are not able to be specifically related to changes in unit volume. Table 1 and Table 2 below set forth change in revenue by class for the quarter an d six months ended June 30, 2017 , respectively : Table 1 Total consolidated revenue increased by 0.8%, primarily driven by an increase in materials and service volume, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency. Materials and service volumes increased primarily due to higher healthcare revenu e and the impact of the acquisition of Vertex Global in the first quarter of 2017. For the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, printer revenue included in the products category contrib uted $27.7 million and $32.3 , respectively. Software revenue included in the products category, including scanners and haptic devices, contributed $12.8 million and $11.1 million, respectively. The increase in materials revenue primarily reflects increased demand for materials driven by increased utilization by the installed base and higher healthcare revenue, including the addition of Vertex and NextDent materials, both included in the Vertex Global acquisition. The increase in services revenue reflects increased demand for healthcare services and printer services, which were partially offset by a decrease in on-demand manufacturing services. For the quarter ended June 30, 2017, services revenue from on-demand manu facturing services decreased 4. 9 % to $2 5 . 8 million, compared to $27.1 for quarter ended June 30, 2016. For the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, software services contributed $11.2 million and $10.9 million, respectively. 19 Table 2 Total consolidated revenue increased by 1.7%, primarily driven by an increase in materials and service volume, partially offset by lower products revenue and negative foreign currency impact. Materials and service volumes increased primarily due to higher demand from healthcare and industrial customers, and the addition of Vertex Global in the first quarter of 2017. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, printer revenue included in the products category contributed $59. 1 million and $6 5 . 2 million , respectively. Software revenue included in the products category, including scanners a nd haptic devices, contributed $22.6 million and $20.9 million, respectively. The increase in materials revenue primarily reflects increased demand for materials from healthcare and industrial customers in addition to the acquisition of Vertex and NextDent dental materials. The increase in services revenue reflects increased demand for healthcare services and printer services, which were partially offset by a decrease in on-demand manufacturing services. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, services revenue from on-demand manufacturing services decreased 5.6 % to $5 0 . 9 million, compared to $53.9 million for quarter ended June 30, 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, software services contributed $21.8 million and $21.3 million, respectively. Comparison of revenue by geographic region Table 3 and Table 4 below set forth change in revenue by geographic area for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively: Table 3 Revenue in the Americas has remained relatively flat for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2016 . The increase in revenue in the EMEA region primarily reflects higher sales volumes, primarily driven by Vertex and production printer sales, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency. The decrease in revenue in the Asia Pacific region primarily reflects a decrease in printers and materials in addition to the impact of foreign currency. For the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, revenue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and APAC, was 49.3 % and 51 . 7 % of total revenue, respectively. 20 Table 4 The decrease in revenue in the Americas region primarily reflects lo wer sales of 3D printers and on- demand manufacturing services, partially offset by increased healthcare-related solutions. The increase in revenue in the EMEA region primarily reflects increased sales volumes of materials, primarily driven by the acquisition of Vertex, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency. The decrease in revenue in the Asia Pacific region primarily reflects lower demand for printers as we ll as negative impact of mix. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, revenue from operations outside the U.S., including Latin America, EMEA and APAC, was 49. 7 % and 50 . 7 % of total revenue, respectively. Gross profit and gross profit margins Table 5 and Table 6 below set forth gross profit and gross profit margin for the quarters an d six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively : Table 5 Total consolidated gross profit remained relatively flat for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2016 . Gross profit margin for products decreased, primarily due to an unfavorable impact from sales mix. Gross profit margin for materials decreased primarily due to the impact of the addition of Vertex conventional dental materials. Gross profit margin for services increased slightly, primarily driven by higher other services margin s, partially offset by lower on- demand man ufacturing services margins. On- demand manufacturing services gross profit margin decreased to 46.0 % for the quarter ending June 30, 2017 as compared to 46.9% for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 . Table 6 The increase in total consolidated gross profit was primarily driven by higher materials and services gross profit. Gross profit margin for products increased, primarily due to changes in product mix. Gross profit margin for materials decreased, primarily due to the addition of Vertex conventional dental materials. Gross profit margin for services decreased slightly, primarily driven by lower p r inter services margins, p artially offset by increased on- demand manufacturing services margins. On-demand manufacturing services gross profit margin increased to 44.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to 44.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2016. 21 Operating expenses Table 7 and Table 8 below set forth components of operating expenses for the quarters an d six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively : Table 7 Total operating expenses increased 4.1%, resulting from an increase in research and development expenses. The increase in research and development expense was primarily due to investment in Figure 4 , metals and materials, including additional talent and resources. Table 8 Total operating expenses decreased 0.9%, reflecting lower selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher research and developmen t expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs driven by lower stock based compensation expense and a decrease in bad debt expense partially offset by an increase in repairs and maintenance. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to investment in Figure 4 , metals and materials, including additional talent and resources. Loss from operations Table 9 below sets forth operating loss by geographic area for the quarters an d six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively : Table 9 The loss from operations increased $3.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2016, while the loss from operations decreased $4.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The operating loss changes w ere primarily driven by changes in gross profit and operating expenses. See " Gross profit and gross profit margins " and " Operating expenses " above. With respect to the Americas, for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the same periods of 2016, operating losses increased reflecting modest decreases in revenue along with increased expenses. The Americas region also contains a significant portion of our corporate costs, which negatively impacts profitability compared to the other regions. Operating losses for the regions are also impacted by our transfer pricing policies on intercompany transactions between the regions. The improvements in operating results for the EMEA region in the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the same periods of 2016 , primarily reflect increased revenue , including the acquisition of Vertex Global , partially offset by the negative impact from foreign currency. 22 The modest decrease in losses from operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the same periods of 2016 , in the Asia Pacific region reflect decreases in revenues offset by corresponding decreases in expenses , partially offset by the negative impact from foreign currency. Interest and other income , net Table 10 below sets forth components of interest and other (income) expense, net, for the quarters an d six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively : T able 10 Net loss Table 11 and Table 12 below set forth components of net loss attributable to 3D Systems for the quarters and six months end ed June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively : Table 11 Table 12 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources Table 13 We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. In doing so, we review and analyze our current cash on hand, the number of days our sales a re outstanding, inventory turns , capital expenditure commitments and accounts payable turns . Our cash requirements primarily consist of funding of working capital and funding of capital expenditures. We believeour existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations in the foreseeable future, or to consummate significant acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies.However, it is possible that, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities. If needed, we may be able to raise such funds by issuing equity or debt securities to the public or selected investors, by borrowing from financial institutions, drawing down on our credit facility, or sellin g assets. Cash held outside the U.S. at June 30, 2017 was $95.2 million, or 61.9% of total cash and equivalents, compared to $83.5 million, or 45.2% of total cash and equivalents at December 31, 2016. Cash held outside the U.S. is used in our foreign operations for working capital purposes and is considered to be permanently invested; consequently, we have not provided for any taxes on repatriation. Cash equivalents comprise funds held in money market instruments and are reported at their current carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short term nature of these instruments. We strive to minimize our credit risk by investing primarily in investment grade, liquid instruments and limit exposure to any one issuer depending upon credit quality. See Cash flow, Credit facilities and Capitalized lease obligations below. Days' sales outstanding was 72 days at June 30, 2017 compared to 70 days at December 31, 2016 and accounts receivable more than 90 days past due decreased to 10.7% of gross receivables, from 12.5% at December 31, 2016. We review specific receivables periodically to determine the appropriate reserve for accounts receivable. The majority of our inventory consists of finished goods, including products, materials and service parts. Inventory also consists of raw materials and spare parts for the in-house assembly and support service products. We outsource the assembly of certain 3D printers; therefore, we generally do not hold most parts for the assembly of these printers in inventory. The changes that make up the other components of working capital not discussed above arose in the ordinary course of business. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. 24 Cash flow Table 14 summarizes the cash provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, as well as the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash, for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Table 14 Cash flow from operating activities Table 15 summarizes the components of cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Table 15 Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $1 8.4 million. Excluding non-cash charges, net income provided $2 5.7 million of cash . Non-cash charges primarily consist of depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation. Workin g capital requirements used $7.3 million. The primary driver of the working capital outflow related to inventory of $9.8 million, accrued and other current liabilities of $6.7 million and other operating activities of $6. 2 million. These amount s were partially offset by a de creas e in accounts receivable of $5.5 million and an increase in deferred revenue of $8.0 million. Differences between the amounts of working capital item changes in the cash flow statement and the balance sheet changes for the corresponding items are primarily the result of foreign currency translation adjustments. Cash flow from investing activities Table 16 summarizes the components of cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Table 16 Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $47.5 million. The primary driver of the outflow related to the acquisition of Vertex, wh ich we acquired for an aggregate purchase price of $34.3 million, net of cash acquired. Property, plant and equipment expenditures totaled $11.2 million for leasehold improvements, including expanding facilities and investing in infrastructure, equipmen t to support our on-demand manufacturing service and printers associated with new product development efforts. 25 Cash flow from financing activities Table 17 summarizes th e components of cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Table 17 Net cash used by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $5.5 million. The primary driver of the outflow related to the payment of $3.2 million in earnout consideration. Contractual commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements Credit facilities In October 2014, we entered into a $150.0 million five-year revolving, unsecured credit facility. The agreement provides for advances in the initial aggregate principal amount of up to $150.0 million.Subject to certain terms and conditions contained in the agreement, we may , at our option , request an increase in the aggregate principal amount available under the credit facility by an additional $75.0 million. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there was no outstanding balance on the credit facility.Based on current financial covenant limitations at June 30, 2017, availability on the credit facility would be approximately $150.0 million. Future results may impact availability. See Note 8 to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Capitalized lease obligations Our capitalized lease obligations include a lease agreement that we entered into during 2006 with respect to our Rock Hill, SC facility, in addition to other lease agreements assumed through acquisitions. In accordance with ASC 840, "Leases," we are considered an owner of the properties, therefore, we have recorded these amounts in our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding capitalized lease obligation in the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet. Our outstanding capitalized l ease obligations carrying value at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $8.0 million and $8.2 million, respectively. O ther contractual arrangements We lease certain of our facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases . For the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , rent expense under operating leases was $3.8 million and $3.3 million, respectively. Certain of our acquisition purchase agreements contain earnout payment provisions under which the sellers of theacquired businesses can earn additional amounts. The total amount of liabilities recorded for these earnouts is $8.1 million and $10.8 million at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Off-balance sheet arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements and do not utilize any "structured debt," "special purpose," or similar unconsolidated entities for liquidity or financing purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Our critical accounting policies are disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. The only change to our critical accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2017 was a modification to the way in which we account for forfeitures of share-based awards. Specifically, beginning in the first quarter of 2017, we recognize forfeitures of share-based awards as they occur in the period of forfeiture rather than estimating the number of awards expected to be forfeited at the grant date and subsequently adjusting the estimate when awards are actually forfeited. This change did not have a material impact on our results of operations in the current period, and is not expected to have a material impact on results of operations in subsequent periods 26 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates For a discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 ("Form 10-K"). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Form 10-Q that are not statements of historical or current facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements . In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as "believes," "belief," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "anticipates," or "plans" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are based upon management's beliefs, assumptions and current expectations concerning future events and trends, using information currently available, and are necessarily subject to uncertainties, many of which are outside our control.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, forward-looking statements are not, and should not be relied upon as a guarantee of future performance or results, nor will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such performanc e or results will be achieved. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. These factors include without limitation: competitive industry pressures; our ability to deliver products that meet changing technology and customer needs; our ability to identify strategic acquisitions, to integrate such acquisitions into our business without disruption and to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions ; impact of future write-off or write-downs of intangible assets; our ability to acquire and enforce intellectual property rights and defend such rights against third party claims; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information, including our digital content, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure; failure of our information technology infrastructure or inability to protect against cyber-attack; our ability to generate net cash flow from operations; our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; impact of global economic, political and social conditions and financial markets on our business; fluctuations in our gross profit margins, operating income or loss and/or net income or loss; our ability to efficiently conduct business outside the U.S.; our dependence on our supply chain for components and sub-assemblies used in our 3D printers and other products and for raw materials used in our print materials; our ability to manage the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries; product quality problems that result in decreased sales and operating margin, product returns, product liability, warranty or other claims; our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs; our exposure to product liability claims and other claims and legal proceedings; disruption in our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other key functions; compliance with U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations; changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations; and compliance with, and related expenses and challenges concerning, conflict-free minerals regulations; and the other factors discussed in the reports we file with or furnishes to the SEC from time to time, including the risks and important factors set forth in additional detail in "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Certain of these and other factors are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of our Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf, whether as a result of new information, future developments, subsequent events or circumstances or otherwise. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above. 27 Item3 .Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk. For a discussion of market risks at December 31, 2016, refer to Item7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," in our Form10-K. During the first six months of 2017, there were no material changes or developments that would materially alter the market risk assessment performed as of December 31, 2016. Item 4. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures As of June 30, 2017 , we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) pursuant to Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act. These controls and procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Based on this evaluation, including an evaluation of the rules referred to above in this Item 4, management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting There were no material changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this Form 10-Q that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting . PARTII- OTHER INFORMATION Item1 .Legal Proceedings. The information set forth in "Litigation" in Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies to the Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference. Item1A .Risk Factors. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in our Form10-K. Item 2 . Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. Recent Issuances of Unregistered Securities None . 28 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any of our e quity securities during the quarter or six months ended June 30, 2017 , except for unvested restricted stock awards repurchased or forfeited pursuant to our 2004 and 2015 Incentive Stock Plans. (a) Reflects shares of common stock surrendered to the Company for payment of tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock. (b) The average price paid reflects the average market value of shares withheld for tax purposes. Item6 .Exhibits. 29 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 30 SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 3D Systems Corporation By /s/ John N. McMullen John N. McMullen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal f inancial and accounting o fficer) (duly authorized o fficer) Date: August 2 , 2017 31